He followed her through the door.

They were now in the passenger  compartment  and  Zaphod's  heart
stopped still again for a moment.

In every seat sat a passenger, strapped into his or her seat.

The passengers' hair was long and unkempt, their fingernails were
long, the men wore beards.

All of them were quite clearly alive - but sleeping.

Zaphod had the creeping horrors.

He walked slowly down the aisle as in a dream. By the time he was
half-way  down  the  aisle,  the stewardess had reached the other
end. She turned and spoke.

"Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen," she said  sweetly,  "Thank
you  for  bearing  with  us  during this slight delay. We will be
taking off as soon as we possibly can. If you would like to  wake
up now I will serve you coffee and biscuits."

There was a slight hum.

At that moment, all the passengers awoke.

They awoke screaming and clawing at their straps and life support
systems  that held them tightly in their seats. They screamed and
bawled and hollered till Zaphod thought his ears would shatter.

They struggled and writhed as the stewardess patiently  moved  up
the  aisle placing a small cup of coffee and a packet of biscuits
in front of each one of them.
Then one of them rose from his seat.

He turned and looked at Zaphod.

Zaphod's skin was crawling all over his body as if it was  trying
to get off. He turned and ran from the bedlam.

He plunged through the door and back into the corridor.

The man pursued him.

He raced in a frenzy to the end  of  the  corridor,  through  the
entrance  chamber  and  beyond.  He  arrived  on the flight deck,
slammed and bolted the door behind him. He leant back against the
door breathing hard.

Within seconds, a hand started beating on the door.

>From somewhere on the flight deck a metallic voice addressed him.

"Passengers are not allowed on the flight deck. Please return  to
your seat, and wait for the ship to take off. Coffee and biscuits
are being served. This is your autopilot speaking. Please  return
to your seat."

Zaphod said nothing. He  breathed  hard,  behind  him,  the  hand
continued to knock on the door.

"Please return to your seat," repeated the autopilot. "Passengers
are not allowed on the flight deck."

"I'm not a passenger," panted Zaphod.

"Please return to your seat."

"I am not a passenger!" shouted Zaphod again.

"Please return to your seat."

"I am not a ... hello, can you hear me?"

"Please return to your seat."

You're the autopilot?" said Zaphod.

"Yes," said the voice from the flight console.

"You're in charge of this ship?"

"Yes," said the voice again, "there has been a delay.  Passengers
are  to  be  kept  temporarily  in suspended animation, for their
comfort and convenience. Coffee and  biscuits  are  being  served
every  year,  after  which  passengers  are returned to suspended
animation for their continued comfort and convenience.  Departure
will take place when the flight stores are complete. We apologize
for the delay."

Zaphod moved away from the door, on which the  pounding  had  now
ceased. He approached the flight console.
"Delay?" he cried, "Have you seen the world  outside  this  ship?
It's  a  wasteland,  a desert. Civilization's been and gone, man.
There  are  no  lemon-soaked  paper  napkins  on  the  way   from
anywhere!"

"The statistical likelihood," continued the autopilot primly, "is
that  other  civilizations  will  arise.  There  will  one day be
lemon-soaked paper napkins. Till  then  there  will  be  a  short
delay. Please return to your seat."

"But ..."

But at that moment the door opened. Zaphod span round to see  the
man  who  had  pursued  him  standing  there.  He carried a large
briefcase. He was smartly dressed, and his hair was short. He had
no beard and no long fingernails.

"Zaphod Beeblebrox," he said, "My name is  Zarniwoop.  I  believe
you wanted to see me."

Zaphod Beeblebrox wittered. His mouths said  foolish  things.  He
dropped into a chair.

"Oh man, oh man, where did you spring from?" he said.

"I've been waiting here for you," he said in a businesslike tone.

He put the briefcase down and sat in another chair.

"I am glad you followed instructions," he  said,  "I  was  a  bit
nervous  that  you  might  have left my office by the door rather
than the window. Then you would have been in trouble."

Zaphod shook his heads at him and burbled.

"When  you  entered  the  door  of  my  office,  you  entered  my
electronically  synthesized  Universe," he explained, "if you had
left by the door you would have been back in the  real  one.  The
artificial one works from here."

He patted the briefcase smugly.

Zaphod glared at him with resentment and loathing.

"What's the difference?" he muttered.

"Nothing," said Zarniwoop, "they are identical. Oh - except  that
I think the Frogstar Fighters are grey in the real Universe."

"What's going on?" spat Zaphod.

"Simple," said Zarniwoop. His self assurance  and  smugness  made
Zaphod seethe.

"Very simple," repeated Zarniwoop, "I discovered the  coordinated
at  which  this  man  could  be  found  -  the  man who rules the
Universe, and discovered that  his  world  was  protected  by  an
Unprobability  field.  To  protect  my  secret  -  and myself - I
retreated to the safety of this totally artificial  Universe  and
hid  myself  away  in  a  forgotten  cruise  liner. I was secure.
Meanwhile, you and I ..."

"You and I?" said Zaphod angrily, "you mean I knew you?"

"Yes," said Zarniwoop, "we knew each other well."

"I had no taste," said Zaphod and resumed a sullen silence.

"Meanwhile,  you  and  I  arranged  that  you  would  steal   the
Improbability  Drive  ship  -  the only one which could reach the
ruler's world - and bring it to me here. This you have now done I
trust,  and  I  congratulate you." He smiled a tight little smile
which Zaphod wanted to hit with a brick.

"Oh, and in case you  were  wondering,"  added  Zarniwoop,  "this
Universe  was  created  specifically  for you to come to. You are
therefore the most important person in this Universe.  You  would
never," he said with an even more brickable smile, "have survived
the Total Perspective Vortex in the real one. Shall we go?"

"Where?" said Zaphod sullenly. He felt collapsed.

"To your ship. The Heart of Gold. You did bring it I trust?"

"No."

"Where is your jacket?"

Zaphod looked at him in mystification.

"My jacket? I took it off. It's outside."

"Good, we will go and find it."

Zarniwoop stood up and gestured to Zaphod to follow him.

Out in the entrance chamber again, they could hear the screams of
the passengers being fed coffee and biscuits.

"It has not been a pleasant experience  waiting  for  you,"  said
Zarniwoop.

"Not pleasant for you!" bawled Zaphod, "How do you think ..."

Zarniwoop held up a silencing finger as the hatchway swung  open.
A few feet away from them they could see Zaphod's jacket lying in
the debris.

"A very remarkable  and  very  powerful  ship,"  said  Zarniwoop,
"watch."

As they watched, the pocket on the  jacket  suddenly  bulged.  It
split, it ripped. The small metal model of the Heart of Gold that
Zaphod had been bewildered to discover in his pocket was growing.

It grew, it continued to grow. It reached, after two minutes, its
full size.
"At an Improbability Level," said Zarniwoop, "of ... oh  I  don't
know, but something very large."

Zaphod swayed.

"You mean I had it with me all the time?"

"Zarniwoop smiled. He lifted up his briefcase and opened it.

He twisted a single switch inside it.

"Goodbye artificial Universe," he said, "hello real one!"

The scene before them shimmered briefly - and reappeared  exactly
as before.

"You see?" said Zarniwoop, "exactly the same."

 "You mean," repeated Zaphod tautly, "that I had it with  me  all
the time?"

"Oh yes," said Zarniwoop, "of course. That was the whole point."

"That's it," said Zaphod, "you can count me out, from  hereon  in
you  can count me out. I've had all I want of this. You play your
own games."

"I'm afraid you cannot leave," said Zarniwoop, "you are  entwined
in the Improbability field. You cannot escape."

He smiled the smile that Zaphod had wanted to hit and  this  time
Zaphod hit it.




Ford Prefect bounded up to the bridge of the Heart of Gold.

"Trillian!  Arthur!"  he  shouted,  "it's  working!  The   ship's
reactivated!"

Trillian and Arthur were asleep on the floor.

"Come on you guys, we're going off, we're off," he  said  kicking
them awake.

"Hi there guys!" twittered the computer, "it's really great to be
back  with you again, I can tell you, and I just want to say that
..."

"Shut up," said Ford, "tell us where the hell we are."

"Frogstar World B, and man it's a dump," said Zaphod  running  on
to the bridge, "hi, guys, you must be so amazingly glad to see me
you don't even find words to tell me what a cool frood I am."

"What a what?" said Arthur blearily, picking himself up from  the
floor and not taking any of this in.
"I know how you feel," said Zaphod, "I'm  so  great  even  I  get
tongue-tied talking to myself. Hey it's good to see you Trillian,
Ford, Monkeyman. Hey, er, computer ...?"

"Hi there, Mr Beeblebrox sir, sure is a great honor to ..."

"Shut up and get us out of here, fast fast fast."

"Sure thing, fella, where do you want to go?"

"Anywhere, doesn't matter," shouted Zaphod,  "yes  it  does!"  he
said again, "we want to go to the nearest place to eat!"

"Sure thing," said the computer happily and a  massive  explosion
rocket the bridge.

When Zarniwoop entered a minute or so later with a black eye,  he
regarded the four wisps of smoke with interest.




Four inert bodies sank through spinning blackness.  Consciousness
had  died, cold oblivion pulled the bodies down and down into the
pit of unbeing. The roar of silence echoed dismally  around  them
and  they  sank at last into a dark and bitter sea of heaving red
that slowly engulfed them, seemingly for ever.

After what seemed an eternity the sea receded and left them lying
on  a  cold  hard  shore, the flotsam and jetsam of the stream of
Life, the Universe, and Everything.

Cold spasms shook them, lights danced  sickeningly  around  them.
The  cold  hard  shore  tipped  and span and then stood still. It
shone darkly - it was a very highly polished cold hard shore.

A green blur watched them disapprovingly.

It coughed.

"Good evening,  madam,  gentlemen,"  it  said,  "do  you  have  a
reservation?"

Ford Prefect's consciousness snapped back  like  elastic,  making
his brain smart. He looked up woozily at the green blur.

"Reservation?" he said weakly. "Yes, sir," said the green blur.

"Do you need a reservation for the afterlife?"

In so far as it is possible for a green blur to arch its eyebrows
disdainfully, this is what the green blur now did.

"Afterlife, sir?" it said.

Arthur Dent was grappling with  his  consciousness  the  way  one
grapples with a lost bar of soap in the bath.
"Is this the afterlife?" he stammered.

"Well I assume so," said Ford Prefect trying to  work  out  which
way was up. He tested the theory that it must lie in the opposite
direction from the cold hard shore on which  he  was  lying,  and
staggered to what he hoped were his feet.

"I mean," he said, swaying gently, "there's no way we could  have
survived that blast is there?"

"No," muttered Arthur. He had raised himself on to his elbows but
it didn't seem to improve things. He slumped down again.

"No," said Trillian, standing up, "no way at all."

A dull hoarse gurgling sound came from the floor. It  was  Zaphod
Beeblebrox  attempting to speak. "I certainly didn't survive," he
gurgled, "I was a total goner. Wham bang and that was it."

"Yeah, thanks to you," said Ford, "We didn't stand a  chance.  We
must have been blown to bits. Arms, legs everywhere."

"Yeah," said Zaphod struggling noisily to his feet.

"If the lady and gentlemen would like to order drinks  ..."  said
the green blur, hovering impatiently beside them.

"Kerpow, splat," continued Zaphod, "instantaneously  zonked  into
our  component molecules. Hey, Ford," he said, identifying one of
the slowly solidifying blurs around him, "did you get that  thing
of your whole life flashing before you?"

"You got that too?" said Ford, "your whole life?"

"Yeah," said Zaphod, "at least I assume it was mine.  I  spent  a
lot of time out of my skulls you know."

He looked at around him at the various shapes that were  at  last
becoming  proper  shapes  instead of vague and wobbling shapeless
shapes.

"So ..." he said.

"So what?" said Ford.

"So here we are," said Zaphod hesitantly, "lying dead ..."

"Standing," Trillian corrected him.

"Er, standing dead," continued Zaphod, "in this desolate ..."

"Restaurant," said Arthur Dent who had got to his feet and  could
now, much to his surprise, see clearly. That is to say, the thing
that surprised him was not that he could see, but what  he  could
see.

"Here we are," continued Zaphod doggedly, "standing dead in  this
desolate ..."
"Five star ..." said Trillian.

"Restaurant," concluded Zaphod.

"Odd isn't it?" said Ford.

"Er, yeah."

"Nice chandeliers though," said Trillian.

They looked about themselves in bemusement.

"It's not so much an afterlife," said Arthur,  "more  a  sort  of
apres vie."

The chandeliers were in fact a little on the flashy side and  the
low  vaulted  ceiling from which they hung would not, in an ideal
Universe, have been painted in  that  particular  shade  of  deep
turquoise,  and  even  if  it  had  been  it  wouldn't  have been
highlighted by concealed moodlighting. This is not,  however,  an
ideal  Universe,  as  was  further  evidenced by the eye-crossing
patterns of the inlaid marble floor, and the  way  in  which  the
fronting  for  the  eighty-yard  long  marble-topped bar had been
made. The fronting for the eighty-yard long marble-topped bar had
been  made  by stitching together nearly twenty thousand Antarean
Mosaic Lizard skins, despite the fact that  the  twenty  thousand
lizards concerned had needed them to keep their insides in.

A few smartly dressed creatures were lounging casually at the bar
or  relaxing  in the richly coloured body-hugging seats that were
deployed here and there about  the  bar  area.  A  young  Vl'Hurg
officer  and  his  green  steaming  young lady passed through the
large smoked glass doors at the far  end  of  the  bar  into  the
dazzling light of the main body of the Restaurant beyond.

Behind Arthur was a large curtained bay window. He  pulled  aside
the  corner  of  the  curtain and looked out at a landscape which
under normal circumstances would have given Arthur  the  creeping
horrors.  These  were not, however, normal circumstances, for the
thing that froze his blood and made his skin try to crawl up  his
back and off the top of his head was the sky. The sky was ...

An attendant flunkey politely drew the curtain back into place.

"All in good time, sir," he said.

Zaphod's eyes flashed.

"Hey, hang about you dead guys," he said, "I think we're  missing
some ultra-important thing here you know. Something somebody said
and we missed it."

Arthur was profoundly relieved to turn his attention from what he
had just seen.

He said, "I said it was a sort of apres ..."

"Yeah, and don't you wish you hadn't?" said Zaphod, "Ford?"
"I said it was odd."

"Yeah, shrewd but dull, perhaps it was ..."

"Perhaps," interrupted the  green  blur  who  had  by  this  time
resolved  into  the  shape  of  a small wizened dark-suited green
waiter, "perhaps you would care to discuss the matter over drinks
..."

"Drinks!" cried Zaphod, "that was it! See what you  miss  if  you
don't stay alert."

"Indeed sir,"  said  the  waiter  patiently.  "If  the  lady  and
gentlemen would care to order drinks before dinner ..."

"Dinner!" Zaphod exclaimed with passion,  "Listen,  little  green
person,  my  stomach could take you home and cuddle you all night
for the mere idea."

"... and the Universe," concluded the waiter, determined  not  to
be  deflected  on  his home stretch, "will explode later for your
pleasure."

Ford's head swivelled towards him. He spoke with feeling.

"Wow," he said, "What sort of drinks do you serve in this place?"

The waiter laughed a polite little waiter's laugh.

"Ah," he said, "I think sir has perhaps misunderstood me."

"Oh, I hope not," breathed Ford.

The waiter coughed a polite little waiter's cough.

"It is not unusual for our customers to be a  little  disoriented
by the time journey," he said, "so if I might suggest ..."

"Time journey?" said Zaphod.

"Time journey?" said Ford.

"Time journey?" said Trillian.

"You mean this isn't the afterlife?" said Arthur.

The waiter smiled a polite little waiter's smile. He  had  almost
exhausted  his  polite little waiter repertoire and would soon be
slipping into his role of a rather  tight  lipped  and  sarcastic
little waiter.

"Afterlife sir?" he said, "No sir."

"And we're not dead?" said Arthur.

The waiter tightened his lips.

"Aha, ha," he said, "Sir is most  evidently  alive,  otherwise  I
would not attempt to serve sir."
In an extraordinary gesture  which  is  pointless  attempting  to
describe,  Zaphod  Beeblebrox slapped both his foreheads with two
of his arms and one of his thighs with the other.

"Hey guys," he said, "This  is  crazy.  We  finally  did  it.  We
finally got to where we were going. This is Milliways!"

"Yes sir," said the waiter, laying on the patience with a trowel,
"this is Milliways - the Restaurant at the End of the Universe."

"End of what?" said Arthur.

"The  Universe,"  repeated   the   waiter,   very   clearly   and
unnecessarily distinctly.

"When did that end?" said Arthur.

"In just a few minutes, sir," said the waiter.  He  took  a  deep
breath.  He  didn't  need  to do this since his body was supplied
with the peculiar assortment of gases it  required  for  survival
from  a  small  intravenous device strapped to his leg. There are
times, however, when whatever your metabolism you have to take  a
deep breath.

"Now, if you would care to order drinks at  last,"  he  said,  "I
will then show you to your table."

Zaphod grinned two manic grins, sauntered over  to  the  bar  and
bought most of it.




The Restaurant at the End of the Universe  is  one  of  the  most
extraordinary  ventures in the entire history of catering. It has
been built on the fragmented remains of ... it will be  built  on
the fragmented ... that is to say it will have been built by this
time, and indeed has been -

One of the major problems encountered in time travel is not  that
of  accidentally  becoming your own father or mother. There is no
problem involved in becoming your own father  or  mother  that  a
broadminded  and  well-adjusted  family can't cope with. There is
also no problem about changing the course of history - the course
of  history  does  not change because it all fits together like a
jigsaw. All the important changes have happened before the things
they  were  supposed to change and it all sorts itself out in the
end.

The major problem is quite simply one of grammar,  and  the  main
work  to  consult in this matter is Dr Dan Streetmentioner's Time
Traveller's Handbook of 1001 Tense Formations. It will  tell  you
for  instance  how to describe something that was about to happen
to you in the past before you avoided it by time-jumping  forward
two  days  in  order  to  avoid  it.  The event will be described
differently according to whether you are talking  about  it  from
the  standpoint  of  your  own  natural  time, from a time in the
further future, or a time in the  further  past  and  is  further
complicated by the possibility of conducting conversations whilst
you are actually travelling from one time  to  another  with  the
intention of becoming your own father or mother.

Most readers get as far as the Future Semi-Conditionally Modified
Subinverted Plagal Past Subjunctive Intentional before giving up:
and in fact in later editions of the book all  the  pages  beyond
this point have been left blank to save on printing costs.

The Hitch Hikers Guide to the  Galaxy  skips  lightly  over  this
tangle  of  academic  abstraction,  pausing only to note that the
term "Future Perfect" has been abandoned since it was  discovered
not to be.

To resume:

The Restaurant at the End of the Universe  is  one  of  the  most
extraordinary ventures in the entire history of catering.

It is built on the fragmented remains  of  an  eventually  ruined
planet  which  is (wioll haven be) enclosed in a vast time bubble
and projected forward in time to the precise moment of the End of
the Universe.

This is, many would say, impossible.

In it, guests take (willan on-take) their places at table and eat
(willan on-eat) sumptuous meals whilst watching (willing watchen)
the whole of creation explode around them.

This is, many would say, equally impossible.

You can arrive (mayan arivan on-when) for any  sitting  you  like
without  prior  (late fore-when) reservation because you can book
retrospectively, as it were when you return  to  your  own  time.
(you  can have on-book haventa forewhen presooning returningwenta
retrohome.)

This is, many would now insist, absolutely impossible.

At the Restaurant you can meet and dine with  (mayan  meetan  con
with  dinan  on  when)  a fascinating cross-section of the entire
population of space and time.

This, it can be explained patiently, is also impossible.

You can visit it as many times as you like  (mayan  on-visit  re-
onvisiting  ... and so on - for further tense-corrections consult
Dr Streetmentioner's book) and be sure of never meeting yourself,
because of the embarrassment this usually causes.

This, even if the rest were true, which  it  isn't,  is  patently
impossible, say the doubters.

All you have to do is deposit one penny in a savings  account  in
your  own  era,  and  when  you  arrive  at  the  End of Time the
operation of compound interest means that the  fabulous  cost  of
your meal has been paid for.
This, many claim, is not merely impossible  but  clearly  insane,
which  is  why  the  advertising executives of the star system of
Bastablon  came  up  with  this  slogan:  "If  you've  done   six
impossible  things  this  morning,  why  not  round  it  off with
breakfast  at  Milliways,  the  Restaurant  at  the  End  of  the
Universe?"




At the bar, Zaphod was rapidly becoming as tired as a  newt.  His
heads  knocked  together and his smiles were coming out of synch.
He was miserably happy.

"Zaphod," said Ford, "whilst  you're  still  capable  of  speech,
would  you  care  to tell me what the photon happened? Where have
you been? Where have we been?  Small  matter,  but  I'd  like  it
cleared up."

Zaphod's left head sobered up, leaving his right to sink  further
into the obscurity of drink.

"Yeah," he said, "I've been around. They want me to find the  man
who  rules  the Universe, but I don't care to meet him. I believe
the man can't cook."

His left head watched his right head saying this and then nodded.

"True," it said, "have another drink."

Ford had another Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster, the drink which has
been  described  as  the  alcoholic  equivalent  of  a  mugging -
expensive and bad for  the  head.  Whatever  had  happened,  Ford
decided, he didn't really care too much.

"Listen Ford," said Zaphod, "everything's cool and froody."

"You mean everything's under control."

"No," said Zaphod, "I do not  mean  everything's  under  control.
That  would  not  be  cool  and  froody. If you want to know what
happened let's just say I had the whole situation in  my  pocket.
OK?"

Ford shrugged.

Zaphod giggled into his drink. It frothed up over the side of the
glass and started to eat its way into the marble bar top.

A wild-skinned sky-gypsy  approached  them  and  played  electric
violin at them until Zaphod gave him a lot of money and he agreed
to go away again.

The gypsy approached Arthur and Trillian sitting in another  part
of the bar.

"I don't know what this place is," said Arthur, "but I  think  it
gives me the creeps."
"Have another drink," said Trillian, "Enjoy yourself."

"Which?" said Arthur, "the two are mutually exclusive."

"Poor Arthur, you're not really cut out for this life are you?"

"You call this life?"

"You're beginning to sound like Marvin."

"Marvin's the clearest thinker I know. How do you think  we  make
this violinist go away?"

The waiter approached.

"Your table is ready," he said.

Seen  from  the  outside,  which  it  never  is,  the  Restaurant
resembles  a  giant  glittering  starfish  beached on a forgotten
rock. Each of  its  arms  houses  the  bars,  the  kitchens,  the
forcefield  generators which protect the entire structure and the
decayed planet on which it sits,  and  the  Time  Turbines  which
slowly  rock  the  whole affair backwards and forwards across the
crucial moment.

In the centre sits the gigantic golden dome,  almost  a  complete
globe,  and  it  was into this area that Zaphod, Ford, Arthur and
Trillian now passed.

At least five tons of glitter alone had gone into it before them,
and  covered every available surface. The other surfaces were not
available  because  they  were  already  encrusted  with  jewels,
precious  sea  shells  from Santraginus, gold leaf, mosaic tiles,
lizard skins and  a  million  unidentifiable  embellishments  and
decorations.  Glass glittered, silver shone, gold gleamed, Arthur
Dent goggled.

"Wowee," said Zaphod, "Zappo."

"Incredible!" breathed Arthur, "the people ... ! The  things  ...
!"

"The things," said Ford Prefect quietly, "are also people."

"The people ..." resumed Arthur, "the ... other people ..."

"The lights ... !" said Trillian.

"The tables ..." said Arthur.

"The clothes ... !" said Trillian.

The waiter thought they sounded like a couple of bailiffs.

"The End of the Universe is very popular," said Zaphod  threading
his  way  unsteadily  through  the throng of tables, some made of
marble, some of rich ultra-mahagony, some even of  platinum,  and
at  each  a party of exotic creatures chatting amongst themselves
and studying menus.
"People like to dress up for it," continued Zaphod, "Gives  it  a
sense of occasion."

The tables were fanned out in a large  circle  around  a  central
stage  area where a small band were playing light music, at least
a thousand tables was Arthur's guess,  and  interspersed  amongst
them  were  swaying palms, hissing fountains, grotesque statuary,
in short all the paraphernalia common to  all  Restaurants  where
little  expense  has  been  spared to give the impression that no
expense has been spared. Arthur glanced around, half expecting to
see someone making an American Express commercial.

Zaphod lurched into Ford, who lurched back into Zaphod.

"Wowee," said Zaphod.

"Zappo," said Ford.

"My great granddaddy must have really screwed up  the  computer's
works,  you  know,"  said  Zaphod,  "I  told it to take us to the
nearest place to eat and it sends us to the End of the  Universe.
Remind me to be nice to it one day."

He paused.

"Hey, everybody's here you know. Everybody who was anybody."

"Was?" said Arthur.

"At the End of the Universe you have to  use  the  past  tense  a
lot,"  said  Zaphod,  "'cos  everything's been done you know. Hi,
guys," he called out to a nearby party of giant iguana lifeforms,
"How did you do?"

"Is that Zaphod Beeblebrox?" asked one iguana of another iguana.

"I think so," replied the second iguana.

"Well doesn't that just take the biscuit," said the first iguana.

"Funny old thing, life," said the second iguana.

"It's what you make of it," said the first and they  lapsed  back
into  silence.  They  were  waiting  for the greatest show in the
Universe.

"Hey, Zaphod," said Ford, grabbing for his arm and, on account of
the  third  Pan  Galactic  Gargle  Blaster, missing. He pointed a
swaying finger.

"There's an old mate of mine," he said,  "Hotblack  Desiato!  See
the man at the platinum table with the platinum suit on?"

Zaphod tried to follow Ford's finger with his eyes  but  it  made
him feel dizzy. Finally he saw.

"Oh yeah," he said, then recognition came a moment later.  "Hey,"
he said, "did that guy ever make it megabig! Wow, bigger than the
biggest thing ever. Other than me."

"Who's he supposed to be?" asked Trillian.

"Hotblack Desiato?" said Zaphod in astonishment, "you don't know?
You never heard of Disaster Area?"

"No," said Trillian, who hadn't.

"The biggest," said Ford, "loudest ..."

"Richest ..." suggested Zaphod.

"... rock band in the history of ..." he searched for the word.

"... history itself," said Zaphod.

"No," said Trillian.

"Zowee," said Zaphod, "here we are at the End of the Universe and
you haven't even lived yet. Did you miss out."

He led her off to where the waiter had been waiting all this time
at the table. Arthur followed them feeling very lost and alone.

Ford waded off through the throng to renew an old acquaintance.

"Hey, er, Hotblack," he called out, "how you doing? Great to  see
you  big boy, how's the noise? You're looking great, really very,
very fat and unwell. Amazing." He slapped the man on the back and
was mildly surprised that it seemed to elict no response. The Pan
Galactic Gargle Blasters swirling round inside him  told  him  to
plunge on regardless.

"Remember the old days?" he said, "We used to  hang  out,  right?
The   Bistro  Illegal,  remember?  Slim's  Throat  Emporium?  The
Evildrome Boozarama, great days eh?"

Hotblack Desiato offered no opinion as to whether they were great
days or not. Ford was not perturbed.

"And when we were hungry we'd pose as public  health  inspectors,
you  remember  that?  And go around confiscating meals and drinks
right? Till we got food poisoning. Oh, and then  there  were  the
long  nights  of talking and drinking in those smelly rooms above
the Cafe Lou in Gretchen Town, New Betel, and you were always  in
the  next  room  trying to write songs on your ajuitar and we all
hated them. And you said you didn't care,  and  we  said  we  did
because  we  hated  them  so much." Ford's eyes were beginning to
mist over.

"And you said you didn't  want  to  be  a  star,"  he  continued,
wallowing  in  nostalgia,  "because you despised the star system.
And we said, Hadra and Sulijoo and me, that we didn't  think  you
had the option. And what do you do now? You buy star systems!"

He turned and solicited the attention of those at nearby tables.

"Here," he said, "is a man who buys star systems!"
Hotblack Desiato made no attempt either to confirm or  deny  this
fact, and the attention of the temporary audience waned rapidly.

"I think someone's drunk," muttered a purple bush-like being into
his wine glass.

Ford staggered slightly, and sat down heavily on the chair facing
Hotblack Desiato.

"What's that number you do?" he  said,  unwisely  grabbing  at  a
bottle  for  support and tipping it over - into a nearby glass as
it happened. Not to waste a happy accident, he drained the glass.

"That really huge number," he continued, "how does it go? `Bwarm!
Bwarm!  Baderr!!'  something, and in the stage act you do it ends
up with this ship crashing right into the sun, and  you  actually
do it!"

Ford crashed his fist into his other hand to illustrate this feat
graphically. He knocked the bottle over again.

"Ship! Sun! Wham bang!" he  cried.  "I  mean  forget  lasers  and
stuff,  you  guys are into solar flares and real sunburn! Oh, and
terrible songs."

His eyes followed the stream of liquid glugging out of the bottle
on to the table. Something ought to be done about it, he thought.

"Hey, you want a drink?" he said.  It  began  to  sink  into  his
squelching mind that something was missing from this reunion, and
that the missing something was in some  way  connected  with  the
fact  that  the fat man sitting opposite him in the platinum suit
and the silvery trilby had not yet said "Hi, Ford" or  "Great  to
see you after all this time," or in fact anything at all. More to
the point he had not yet even moved.

"Hotblack?" said Ford.

A large meaty hand landed on his shoulder from behind and  pushed
him aside. He slid gracelessly off his seat and peered upwards to
see if he could spot the owner of  this  discourteous  hand.  The
owner  was not hard to spot, on account of his being something of
the order of seven feet tall and not slightly built with  it.  In
fact  he was built the way one builds leather sofas, shiny, lumpy
and with lots of solid stuffing. The suit into  which  the  man's
body  had been stuffed looked as if it's only purpose in life was
to demonstrate how difficult it was to get this sort of body into
a  suit.  The face had the texture of an orange and the colour of
an apple, but there the resemblance to anything sweet ended.

"Kid ..." said a voice which emerged from the man's mouth  as  if
it had been having a really rough time down in his chest.

"Er, yeah?" said Ford conversationally. He staggered back to  his
feet  again  and was disappointed that the top of his head didn't
come further up the man's body.

"Beat it," said the man.
"Oh yeah?" said Ford, wondering how wise he was being,  "and  who
are you?"

The man considered this for a moment. He  wasn't  used  to  being
asked  this sort of question. Nevertheless, after a while he came
up with an answer.

"I'm the guy who's telling you to beat it," he said, "before  you
get it beaten for you."

"Now listen," said Ford nervously - he wished his head would stop
spinning,  settle down and get to grips with the situation - "Now
listen," he continued, "I am one of Hotblack's oldest friends and
..."

He glanced at Hotblack Desiato, who still hadn't moved so much as
an eyelash.

"... and ..." said Ford again, wondering what  would  be  a  good
word to say after "and".

The large man came up with a whole sentence to go after "and". He
said it.

"And I am Mr Desiato's bodyguard," it went, "and I am responsible
for his body, and I am not responsible for yours, so take it away
before it gets damaged."

"Now wait a minute," said Ford.

"No minutes!" boomed  the  bodyguard,  "no  waiting!  Mr  Desiato
speaks to no one!"

"Well perhaps you'd let him say what he thinks about  the  matter
himself," said Ford.

"He speaks to no one!" bellowed the bodyguard.

Ford glanced anxiously at Hotblack again and was forced to  admit
to  himself  that  the  bodyguard seemed to have the facts on his
side. There was still not the slightest  sign  of  movement,  let
alone keen interest in Ford's welfare.

"Why?" said Ford, "What's the matter with him?"

The bodyguard told him.




The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy notes that Disaster Area, a
plutonium rock band from the Gagrakacka Mind Zones, are generally
held to be not only the loudest rock band in the Galaxy,  but  in
fact  the loudest noise of any kind at all. Regular concert goers
judge that the best sound balance is usually  to  be  heard  from
within  large  concrete  bunkers some thirty-seven miles from the
stage, whilst the musicians themselves play their instruments  by
remote  control  from  within a heavily insulated spaceship which
stays in orbit around the planet - or more  frequently  around  a
completely different planet.

Their songs are on the whole very simple and  mostly  follow  the
familiar  theme  of  boy-being meets girl-being beneath a silvery
moon, which then explodes for no adequately explored reason.

Many worlds have now banned their act altogether,  sometimes  for
artistic  reasons,  but  most  commonly because the band's public
address  system  contravenes  local  strategic  arms  limitations
treaties.

This has not, however, stopped their earnings from  pushing  back
the boundaries of pure hypermathematics, and their chief research
accountant   has   recently   been   appointed    Professor    of
Neomathematics  at  the University of Maximegalon, in recognition
of both his General and his Special Theories of Disaster Area Tax
Returns,  in  which he proves that the whole fabric of the space-
time continuum is not merely curved, it is in fact totally bent.

Ford staggered  back  to  the  table  where  Zaphod,  Arthur  and
Trillian were sitting waiting for the fun to begin.

"Gotta have some food," said Ford.

"Hi, Ford," said Zaphod, "you speak to the big noise boy?"

Ford waggled his head noncommittally.

"Hotblack? I sort of spoke to him, yeah."

"What'd he say?"

"Well, not a lot really. He's ... er ..."

"Yeah?"

"He's spending a year dead for  tax  reasons.  I've  got  to  sit
down."

He sat down.

The waiter approached.

"Would you like to see the menu?" he said, "or would you like  to
meet the Dish of the Day?"

"Huh?" said Ford.

"Huh?" said Arthur.

"Huh?" said Trillian.

"That's cool," said Zaphod, "we'll meet the meat."

In a small room in one of the arms of the  Restaurant  complex  a
tall,  thin,  gangling figure pulled aside a curtain and oblivion
looked him in the face.
It was not a pretty face, perhaps because oblivion had looked him
in  it  so  many times. It was too long for a start, the eyes too
sunken and too hooded, the cheeks too hollow, his lips  were  too
thin and too long, and when they parted his teeth looked too much
like a recently polished bay window.  The  hands  that  held  the
curtain  were  long  and  thin too: they were also cold. They lay
lightly along the folds of the curtain and  gave  the  impression
that if he didn't watch them like a hawk they would crawl away of
their own accord and do something unspeakable in a corner.

He let the curtain drop and the terrible light that had played on
his  features went off to play somewhere more healthy. He prowled
around his small chamber like a mantis contemplating an evening's
preying,  finally settling on a rickety chair by a trestle table,
where he leafed through a few sheets of jokes.

A bell rang.

He pushed the thin sheaf of papers aside and stood up. His  hands
brushed  limply  over  some  of  the one million rainbow-coloured
sequins with which his jacket was  festooned,  and  he  was  gone
through the door.

In the Restaurant the lights dimmed, the band quickened its pace,
a single spotlight stabbed down into the darkness of the stairway
that led up to the centre of the stage.

Up the stairs bounded bounded a tall brilliantly coloured figure.
He  burst  on to the stage, tripped lightly up to the microphone,
removed it from its stand with one swoop of his  long  thin  hand
and  stood  for  a  moment  bowing left and right to the audience
acknowledging their applause  and  displaying  to  them  his  bay
window.  He  waved to his particular friends in the audience even
though there weren't any there, and waited for  the  applause  to
die down.

He held up his hand and smiled a smile that stretched not  merely
from  ear  to  ear, but seemed to extend some way beyond the mere
confines of his face.

"Thank you ladies and gentlemen!" he cried, "thank you very much.
Thank you so much."

He eyed them with a twinkling eye.

"Ladies and gentlemen," he said, "The Universe as we know it  has
now  been  in existence for over one hundred and seventy thousand
million billion years and will be ending in a little over half an
hour. So, welcome one and all to Milliways, the Restaurant at the
End of the Universe!"

With a gesture he deftly conjured another  round  of  spontaneous
applause. With another gesture he cut it.

"I  am  your  host  for  tonight,"  he  said,  "my  name  is  Max
Quordlepleen  ..."  (Everybody  knew  this,  his  act  was famous
throughout the known  Galaxy,  but  he  said  it  for  the  fresh
applause  it  generated, which he acknowledged with a disclaiming
smile and wave.) "... and I've just come straight from  the  very
very other end of time, where I've been hosting a show at the Big
Bang Burger Bar - where I can tell you we  had  a  very  exciting
evening  ladies  and  gentlemen  -  and  I will be with you right
through this historic occasion, the End of History itself!"

Another burst of applause died away quickly as the lights  dimmed
down   further.   On   every  table  candles  ignited  themselves
spontaneously, eliciting a slight gasp from all  the  diners  and
wreathing them in a thousand tiny flickering lights and a million
intimate shadows. A tremor of  excitement  thrilled  through  the
darkened Restaurant as the vast golden dome above them began very
very slowly to dim, to darken, to fade.

Max's voice was hushed as he continued.

"So, ladies and gentlemen," he breathed, "the  candles  are  lit,
the  band  plays  softly, and as the force-shielded dome above us
fades into transparency, revealing a dark  and  sullen  sky  hung
heavy  with  the  ancient light of livid swollen stars, I can see
we're all in for a fabulous evening's apocalypse!"

Even the soft tootling of the band faded away  as  stunned  shock
descended on all those who had not seen this sight before.

A monstrous, grisly light poured in on them,

- a hideous light,

- a boiling, pestilential light,

- a light that would have disfigured hell.

The Universe was coming to an end.

For a few  interminable  seconds  the  Restaurant  span  silently
through the raging void. Then Max spoke again.

"For those of you who ever hoped to see the light at the  end  of
the tunnel," he said, "this is it."

The band struck up again.

"Thank you, ladies and gentlemen," cried Max, "I'll be back  with
you again in just a moment, and meanwhile I leave you in the very
capable hands of Mr Reg Nullify and his  cataclysmic  Combo.  Big
hand please ladies and gentlemen for Reg and the boys!"

The baleful turmoil of the skies continued.

Hesitantly the audience began to clap and after a  moment  or  so
normal  conversation  resumed. Max began his round of the tables,
swapping jokes, shouting with laughter, earning his living.

A large dairy animal  approached  Zaphod  Beeblebrox's  table,  a
large  fat  meaty  quadruped of the bovine type with large watery
eyes, small horns and what might almost have been an ingratiating
smile on its lips.

"Good evening," it lowed and sat back heavily on its haunches, "I
am  the  main  Dish of the Day. May I interest you in parts of my
body?" It  harrumphed  and  gurgled  a  bit,  wriggled  its  hind
quarters into a more comfortable position and gazed peacefully at
them.

Its gaze was met by looks of startled  bewilderment  from  Arthur
and Trillian, a resigned shrug from Ford Prefect and naked hunger
from Zaphod Beeblebrox.

"Something off  the  shoulder  perhaps?"  suggested  the  animal,
"Braised in a white wine sauce?"

"Er, your shoulder?" said Arthur in a horrified whisper.

"But naturally my shoulder, sir," mooed the  animal  contentedly,
"nobody else's is mine to offer."

Zaphod leapt to his feet and started  prodding  and  feeling  the
animal's shoulder appreciatively.

"Or the rump is very  good,"  murmured  the  animal.  "I've  been
exercising  it  and  eating  plenty of grain, so there's a lot of
good meat there." It gave  a  mellow  grunt,  gurgled  again  and
started to chew the cud. It swallowed the cud again.

"Or a casserole of me perhaps?" it added.

"You mean this animal actually wants us  to  eat  it?"  whispered
Trillian to Ford.

"Me?" said Ford, with a glazed look in his eyes,  "I  don't  mean
anything."

"That's  absolutely  horrible,"  exclaimed  Arthur,   "the   most
revolting thing I've ever heard."

"What's the problem Earthman?" said Zaphod, now transferring  his
attention to the animal's enormous rump.

"I just don't want to eat an animal that's standing here inviting
me to," said Arthur, "it's heartless."

"Better than eating an animal that doesn't  want  to  be  eaten,"
said Zaphod.

"That's not the point," Arthur protested. Then he  thought  about
it  for  a  moment. "Alright," he said, "maybe it is the point. I
don't care, I'm not going to think about it now. I'll just ... er
..."

The Universe raged about him in its death throes.

"I think I'll just have a green salad," he muttered.

"May I urge you to consider my liver?" asked the animal, "it must
be  very  rich  and tender by now, I've been force-feeding myself
for months."

"A green salad," said Arthur emphatically.
"A green salad?" said the animal, rolling his eyes disapprovingly
at Arthur.

"Are you going to tell me," said Arthur, "that I  shouldn't  have
green salad?"

"Well," said the animal, "I know many vegetables  that  are  very
clear  on  that  point. Which is why it was eventually decided to
cut through the whole tangled problem and breed  an  animal  that
actually  wanted to be eaten and was capable of saying so clearly
and distinctly. And here I am."

It managed a very slight bow.

"Glass of water please," said Arthur.

"Look," said Zaphod, "we want to eat, we don't  want  to  make  a
meal  of  the  issues.  Four  rare  steaks  please, and hurry. We
haven't eaten in five hundred and  seventy-six  thousand  million
years."

The animal staggered to its feet. It gave a mellow gurgle.

"A very wise choice, sir, if I may say so. Very good,"  it  said,
"I'll just nip off and shoot myself."

He turned and gave a friendly wink to Arthur.

"Don't worry, sir," he said, "I'll be very humane."

It waddled unhurriedly off into the kitchen.

A matter of minutes later  the  waiter  arrived  with  four  huge
steaming  steaks.  Zaphod  and  Ford  wolfed  straight  into them
without a second's hesitation. Trillian paused, then shrugged and
started into hers.

Arthur stared at his feeling slightly ill.

"Hey, Earthman," said Zaphod with a malicious grin  on  the  face
that wasn't stuffing itself, "what's eating you?"

And the band played on.

All around the Restaurant people and things relaxed and  chatted.
The  air  was  filled  with  talk  of this and that, and with the
mingled scents of exotic plants, extravagant foods and  insidious
wines.  For  an  infinite  number of miles in every direction the
universal  cataclysm  was  gathering  to  a  stupefying   climax.
Glancing at his watch, Max returned to the stage with a flourish.

"And now, ladies and gentlemen," he beamed, "is  everyone  having
one last wonderful time?"

"Yes," called out the sort of people  who  call  out  "yes"  when
comedians ask them if they're having a wonderful time.

"That's wonderful," enthused Max, "absolutely wonderful.  And  as
the  photon storms gather in swirling crowds around us, preparing
to tear apart the last of the red hot suns,  I  know  you're  all
going  to  settle back and enjoy with me what I know we will find
all an immensely exciting and terminal experience."

He paused. He caught the audience with a glittering eye.

"Believe me, ladies and gentlemen,"  he  said,  "there's  nothing
penultimate about this one."

He paused again. Tonight his timing was  immaculate.  Time  after
time  he had done this show, night after night. Not that the word
night had any meaning here at the extremity of  time.  All  there
was  was  the  endless  repetition  of  the  final moment, as the
Restaurant  rocked  slowly  forward  over  the  brink  of  time's
furthest edge - and back again. This "night" was good though, the
audience was writhing in the palm of his sickly hand.  His  voice
dropped. They had to strain to hear him.

"This," he said, "really is the absolute end, the final  chilling
desolation, in which the whole majestic sweep of creation becomes
extinct. This ladies and gentlemen is the proverbial `it'."

He dropped his voice still lower. In the stillness, a  fly  would
not have dared cleat its throat.

"After this,"  he  said,  "there  is  nothing.  Void.  Emptiness.
Oblivion. Absolute nothing ..."

His eyes glittered again - or did they twinkle?"

"Nothing ... except of course for the sweet trolley, and  a  fine
selection of Aldebaran liqueurs!"

The band gave him a musical sting. He wished  they  wouldn't,  he
didn't  need  it, not an artist of his calibre. He could play the
audience like his own musical instrument. They were laughing with
relief. He followed on.

"And for once," he cried cheerily, "you don't need to worry about
having  a  hangover  in  the morning - because there won't be any
more mornings!"

He beamed at his happy, laughing audience. He glanced up  at  the
sky,  going  through  the  same dead routine every night, but his
glance was only for a fraction of a second. He trusted it  to  do
its job, as one professional trusts another.

"And now," he said, strutting about the stage, "at  the  risk  of
putting a damper on the wonderful sense of doom and futility here
this evening, I would like to welcome a few parties."

He pulled a card from his pocket.

"Do we have ..." he put up a hand to hold back the cheers, "Do we
have  a  party here from the Zansellquasure Flamarion Bridge Club
from beyond the Vortvoid of Qvarne? Are they here?"

A rousing cheer came from the back, but he pretended not to hear.
He peered around trying to find them.

"Are they here?" he asked again, to elict a louder cheer.

He got it, as he always did.

"Ah, there they are. Well, last bids  lads  -  and  no  cheating,
remember this is a very solemn moment."

He lapped up the laughter.

"And do we also have, do we have ... a  party  of  minor  deities
from the Halls of Asgard?"

Away to his right came  a  rumble  of  thunder.  Lightning  arced
across  the  stage.  A  small group of hairy men with helmets sat
looking very pleased with themselves, and raised their glasses to
him.

Hasbeens, he thought to himself.

"Careful with that hammer, sir," he said.

They did their trick with the lightning again. Max  gave  them  a
very thin lipped smile.

"And thirdly," he said, "thirdly a party of  Young  Conservatives
from Sirius B, are they here?"

A party of smartly dressed young dogs stopped throwing  rolls  at
each  other  and started throwing rolls at the stage. They yapped
and barked unintelligibly.

"Yes," said Max, "well this is all your fault, you realize that?"

"And finally," said Max, quieting the audience down  and  putting
on  his  solemn  face,  "finally  I  believe we have with us here
tonight, a party of believers, very devout  believers,  from  the
Church of the Second Coming of the Great Prophet Zarquon."

There were about twenty of them, sitting right out on the edge of
the  floor, ascetically dressed, sipping mineral water nervously,
and staying apart from the festivities. They blinked  resentfully
as the spotlight was turned on them.

"There they are," said Max, "sitting there,  patiently.  He  said
he'd  come again, and he's kept you waiting a long time, so let's
hope he's hurrying fellas, because he's only  got  eight  minutes
left!"

The party of  Zarquon's  followers  sat  rigid,  refusing  to  be
buffeted  by  the waves of uncharitable laughter which swept over
them.

Max restrained his audience.

"No, but seriously though folks,  seriously  though,  no  offence
meant.  No,  I know we shouldn't make fun of deeply held beliefs,
so I think a big hand please for the Great Prophet Zarquon ..."
The audience clapped respectfully.

"... wherever he's got to!"

He blew a kiss to the  stony-faced  party  and  returned  to  the
centre of the stage.

He grabbed a tall stool and sat on it.

"It's marvellous though," he rattled on, "to see so many  of  you
here  tonight  -  no isn't it though? Yes, absolutely marvellous.
Because I know that so many of you come here time and time again,
which  I  think is really wonderful, to come and watch this final
end of everything, and then return home to your own eras ...  and
raise  families,  strive  for  new  and  better  societies, fight
terrible wars for what you know to be right ... it  really  gives
one  hope  for  the future of all lifekind. Except of course," he
waved at the blitzing turmoil above and  around  them,  "that  we
know it hasn't got one ..."

Arthur turned to Ford - he hadn't quite got this place worked out
in his mind.

"Look, surely," he said, "if the Universe is  about  to  end  ...
don't we go with it?"

Ford gave him a three-Pan-Galactic-Gargle-Blaster look, in  other
words a rather unsteady one.

"No," he said, "look," he said, "as soon as you  come  into  this
dive you get held in this sort of amazing force-shielded temporal
warp thing. I think."

"Oh," said Arthur. He turned his attention back to a bowl of soup
he'd managed to get from the waiter to replace his steak.

"Look," said Ford, "I'll show you."

He grabbed at a napkin off the table and fumbled hopelessly  with
it.

"Look," he said  again,  "imagine  this  napkin,  right,  as  the
temporal Universe, right? And this spoon as a transductional mode
in the matter curve ..."

It took him a while to say this last part, and  Arthur  hated  to
interrupt him.

"That's the spoon I was eating with," he said.

"Alright," said Ford, "imagine this spoon ..." he found  a  small
wooden spoon on a tray of relishes, "this spoon ..." but found it
rather tricky to pick up, "no, better still this fork ..."

"Hey would you let go of my fork?" snapped Zaphod.

"Alright," said Ford, "alright, alright. Why don't we say ... why
don't we say that this wine glass is the temporal Universe ..."
"What, the one you've just knocked on the floor?"

"Did I do that?"

"Yes."

"Alright," said Ford, "forget that. I mean ... I mean,  look,  do
you know - do you know how the Universe actually began for a kick
off?"

"Probably not," said Arthur, who wished he'd  never  embarked  on
any of this.

"Alright," said Ford, "imagine this. Right. You  get  this  bath.
Right. A large round bath. And it's made of ebony."

"Where from?" said Arthur, "Harrods was destroyed by the Vogons."

"Doesn't matter."

"So you keep saying."

"Listen."

"Alright."

"You get this bath, see? Imagine you've got this bath.  And  it's
ebony. And it's conical."

"Conical?" said Arthur, "What sort of ..."

"Shhh!" said Ford. "It's conical. So what you do is, you see, you
fill it with fine white sand, alright? Or sugar. Fine white sand,
and/or sugar. Anything. Doesn't matter. Sugar's  fine.  And  when
it's full, you pull the plug out ... are you listening?"

"I'm listening."

"You pull the plug out, and it all just twirls away, twirls  away
you see, out of the plughole."

"I see."

"You don't see. You don't see at all. I haven't got to the clever
bit yet. You want to hear the clever bit?"

"Tell me the clever bit."

"I'll tell you the clever bit."

Ford thought for a moment, trying to remember what the clever bit
was.

"The clever bit," he said, "is this. You film it happening."

"Clever."

"That's not the clever bit. This is the clever  bit,  I  remember
now  that this is the clever bit. The clever bit is that you then
thread the film in the projector ... backwards!"

"Backwards?"

"Yes. Threading it backwards is definitely  the  clever  bit.  So
then,  you  just sit and watch it, and everything just appears to
spiral upwards out of the plughole and fill the bath. See?"

"And that's how the Universe began is it?" said Arthur.

"No," said Ford, "but it's a marvellous way to relax."

He reached for his wine glass.

"Where's my wine glass?" he said.

"It's on the floor."

"Ah."

Tipping back his chair to look for it,  Ford  collided  with  the
small  green  waiter  who  was  approaching  the table carrying a
portable telephone.

Ford excused himself to the waiter explaining that it was because
he was extremely drunk.

The waiter said that that was quite alright and that he perfectly
understood.

Ford thanked the waiter for his kind indulgence, attempted to tug
his forelock, missed by six inches and slid under the table.

"Mr Zaphod Beeblebrox?" inquired the waiter.

"Er, yeah?" said Zaphod, glancing up from his third steak.

"There is a phone call for you."

"Hey, what?"

"A phone call, sir."

"For me? Here? Hey, but who knows where I am?"

One of his minds raced. The other dawdled lovingly over the  food
it was still shovelling in.

"Excuse me if I carry on, won't you?" said his  eating  head  and
carried on.

There were now so many people  after  him  he'd  lost  count.  He
shouldn't  have  made  such a conspicuous entrance. Hell, why not
though, he thought. How do you know you're having fun if  there's
no one watching you have it?

"Maybe  someone  here  tipped  off  the  Galactic  Police,"  said
Trillian. "Everyone saw you come in."
"You mean they want to arrest me over the  phone?"  said  Zaphod,
"Could be. I'm a pretty dangerous dude when I'm concerned."

"Yeah," said a voice from under the table, "you go to  pieces  so
fast people get hit by the shrapnel."

"Hey, what is this, Judgment Day?" snapped Zaphod.

"Do we get to see that as well?" asked Arthur nervously.

"I'm in no hurry," muttered Zaphod, "OK, so who's the cat on  the
phone?"  He kicked Ford. "Hey get up there, kid," he said to him,
"I may need you."

"I am not," said the  waiter,  "personally  acquainted  with  the
metal gentlemen in question, sir ..."

"Metal?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you say metal?"

"Yes, sir. I said that I am not personally  acquainted  with  the
metal gentleman in question ..."

"OK, carry on."

"But I am informed that he has been awaiting your  return  for  a
considerable number of millennia. It seems you left here somewhat
precipitately."

"Left here?" said Zaphod, "are you being strange?  We  only  just
arrived here."

"Indeed, sir," persisted the waiter  doggedly,  "but  before  you
arrived here, sir, I understand that you left here."

Zaphod tried this in one brain, then in the other.

"You're saying," he said, "that before we arrived here,  we  left
here?"

This is going to be a long night, thought the waiter.

"Precisely, sir," he said.

"Put your analyst on danger money, baby," advised Zaphod.

"No, wait a minute," said Ford, emerging above table level again,
"where exactly is here?"

"To be absolutely exact sir, it is Frogstar World B."

"But we just left there," protested Zaphod, "we  left  there  and
came to the Restaurant at the End of the Universe."

"Yes, sir," said the waiter, feeling that he  was  now  into  the
home  stretch  and  running well, "the one was constructed on the
ruins of the other."

"Oh," said Arthur brightly, "you mean we've travelled in time but
not in space."

"Listen you semi-evolved simian," cut in Zaphod, "go climb a tree
will you?"

Arthur bristled.

"Go bang your heads together four-eyes," he advised Zaphod.

"No, no," the waiter said to Zaphod,  "your  monkey  has  got  it
right, sir."

Arthur stuttered in fury and said  nothing  apposite,  or  indeed
coherent.

"You jumped forward ... I believe five  hundred  and  seventy-six
thousand million years whilst staying in exactly the same place,"
explained the waiter. He smiled. He had a wonderful feeling  that
he  had  finally  won  through  against  what  had  seemed  to be
insuperable odds.

"That's it!" said Zaphod, "I got it. I told the computer to  send
us  to the nearest place to eat, that's exactly what it did. Give
or take five hundred and seventy-six thousand million  years,  we
never moved. Neat."

They all agreed this was very neat.

"But who," said Zaphod, "is the cat on the phone?"

"Whatever happened to Marvin?" said Trillian.

Zaphod clapped his hands to his heads.

"The Paranoid Android! I left him moping about on Frogstar B."

"When was this?"

"Well, er, five hundred and seventy-six  thousand  million  years
ago I suppose," said Zaphod, "Hey, er, hand me the rap-rod, Plate
Captain."

The little waiter's  eyebrows  wandered  about  his  forehead  in
confusion.

"I beg your pardon, sir?" he said.

"The phone, waiter," said Zaphod, grabbing it off him. "Shee, you
guys are so unhip it's a wonder your bums don't fall off."

"Indeed, sir."

"Hey, Marvin, is that you?" said Zaphod into the phone, "How  you
doing, kid?"
There was a long pause before a thin low voice came up the line.

"I think you ought to know I'm feeling very depressed," it said.

Zaphod cupped his hands over the phone.

"It's Marvin," he said.

"Hey, Marvin," he said into the  phone  again,  "we're  having  a
great  time. Food, wine, a little personal abuse and the Universe
going foom. Where can we find you?"

Again the pause.

"You don't have to pretend to be interested in me you know," said
Marvin at last, "I know perfectly well I'm only a menial robot."

"OK, OK," said Zaphod, "but where are you?"

"`Reverse primary thrust, Marvin,' that's what they  say  to  me,
`open  airlock number three, Marvin. Marvin, can you pick up that
piece of paper?' Can I pick up that piece of paper!  Here  I  am,
brain the size of a planet and they ask me to ..."

"Yeah, yeah," sympathized Zaphod hardly at all.

"But I'm quite used to being humiliated," droned Marvin,  "I  can
even go and stick my head in a bucket of water if you like. Would
you like me to go and stick my head in a bucket  of  water?  I've
got one ready. Wait a minute."

"Er, hey, Marvin ..." interrupted Zaphod, but it  was  too  late.
Sad little clunks and gurgles came up the line.

"What's he saying?" asked Trillian.

"Nothing," said Zaphod, "he just phoned up to wash  his  head  at
us."

"There," said Marvin, coming back on the line and bubbling a bit,
"I hope that gave satisfaction ..."

"Yeah, yeah," said Zaphod, "now will you please tell us where you
are?"

"I'm in the car park," said Marvin.

"The car park?" said Zaphod, "what are you doing there?"

"Parking cars, what else does one do in a car park?"

"OK, hang in there, we'll be right down."

In one movement Zaphod leapt to his feet, threw  down  the  phone
and wrote "Hotblack Desiato" on the bill.

"Come on guys," he said, "Marvin's in the car park. Let's get  on
down."
"What's he doing in the car park?" asked Arthur.

"Parking cars, what else? Dum dum."

"But what about the End of  the  Universe?  We'll  miss  the  big
moment."

"I've seen it. It's rubbish," said Zaphod, "nothing  but  a  gnab
gib."

"A what?"

"Opposite of a big bang. Come on, let's get zappy."

Few of the other diners paid them any attention  as  they  weaved
their  way  through  the  Restaurant to the exit. Their eyes were
riveted on the horror of the skies.

"An interesting effect to watch for," Max was telling  them,  "is
in  the  upper  left-hand  quadrant of the sky, where if you look
very carefully you can see the star system Hastromil boiling away
into the ultra-violet. Anyone here from Hastromil?"

There were one or two slightly hesitant cheers from somewhere  at
the back.

"Well," said Max beaming cheerfully at them, "it's  too  late  to
worry about whether you left the gas on now."




The main reception foyer was almost empty but  Ford  nevertheless
weaved his way through it.

Zaphod grasped him firmly by the arm and manoeuvred  him  into  a
cubicle standing to one side of the entrance hall.

"What are you doing to him?" asked Arthur.

"Sobering him up," said Zaphod and pushed a  coin  into  a  slot.
Lights flashed, gases swirled.

"Hi," said Ford stepping  out  a  moment  later,  "where  are  we
going?"

"Down to the car park, come on."

"What about the personnel Time Teleports?"  said  Ford,  "Get  us
straight back to the Heart of Gold."

"Yeah, but I've cooled on that ship. Zarniwoop  can  have  it.  I
don't want to play his games. Let's see what we can find."

A  Sirius   Cybernetics   Corporation   Happy   Vertical   People
Transporter  took  them  down deep into the substrata beneath the
Restaurant. They were glad to see  it  had  been  vandalized  and
didn't try to make them happy as well as take them down.
At the bottom of the shaft the lift doors opened and a  blast  of
cold stale air hit them.

The first thing they saw on leaving the lift was a long  concrete
wall with over fifty doors in it offering lavatory facilities for
all of fifty major lifeforms. Nevertheless, like every  car  park
in  the  Galaxy  throughout the entire history of car parks, this
car park smelt predominantly of impatience.

They turned a corner and found themselves  on  a  moving  catwalk
that traversed a vast cavernous space that stretched off into the
dim distance.

It was divided off into bays each of which contained a space ship
belonging  to  one  of  the  diners  upstairs,  some smallish and
utilitarian  mass  production   models,   others   vast   shining
limoships, the playthings of the very rich.

Zaphod's eyes sparkled with something that may or  may  not  have
been  avarice  as  he  passed  over them. In fact it's best to be
clear on this point - avarice is definitely what it was.

"There he is," said Trillian, "Marvin, down there."

They looked where she was pointing. Dimly they could see a  small
metal  figure listlessly rubbing a small rag on one remote corner
of a giant silver suncruiser.

At short intervals along the  moving  catwalk,  wide  transparent
tubes  led  down  to  floor level. Zaphod stepped off the catwalk
into one and  floated  gently  downwards.  The  others  followed.
Thinking  back  to  this  later,  Arthur  Dent thought it was the
single most enjoyable experience of his travels in the Galaxy.

"Hey, Marvin," said Zaphod striding over towards  to  him,  "Hey,
kid, are we pleased to see you."

Marvin turned, and in so far as it  is  possible  for  a  totally
inert metal face to look reproachfully, this is what it did.

"No you're not," he said, "no one ever is."

"Suit yourself," said Zaphod and turned away to ogle  the  ships.
Ford went with him.

Only Trillian and Arthur actually went up to Marvin.

"No, really we are," said Trillian and patted him in a  way  that
he  disliked  intensely,  "hanging around waiting for us all this
time."

"Five hundred and seventy-six thousand  million,  three  thousand
five  hundred  and  seventy-nine  years," said Marvin, "I counted
them."

"Well, here we are now," said Trillian, felling - quite correctly
in Marvin's view - that it was a slightly foolish thing to say.

"The first ten million years were the worst," said  Marvin,  "and
the  second ten million years, they were the worst too. The third
million years I didn't enjoy at all. After that I went into a bit
of decline."

He paused just long enough to make them feel they  ought  to  say
something, and then interrupted.

"It's the people you meet in this job that really get you  down,"
he said and paused again.

Trillian cleared her throat.

"Is that ..."

"The best conversation I had was over forty million  years  ago,"
continued Marvin.

Again the pause.

"Oh d ..."

"And that was with a coffee machine."

He waited.

"That's a ..."

"You don't like talking to me do  you?"  said  Marvin  in  a  low
desolate tone.

Trillian talked to Arthur instead.

Further down the chamber Ford  Prefect  had  found  something  of
which he very much liked the look, several such things in fact.

"Zaphod," he said in a quiet voice, "just look at some  of  these
little star trolleys ..."

Zaphod looked and liked.

The craft they were looking at  was  in  fact  pretty  small  but
extraordinary, and very much a rich kid's toy. It was not much to
look at. It resembled nothing so  much  as  a  paper  dart  about
twenty  feet  long made of thin but tough metal foil. At the rear
end was a small horizontal two-man cockpit. It had a tiny  charm-
drive  engine,  which  was  not capable of moving it at any great
speed. The thing it did have, however, was a heat-sink.

The heat-sink had a mass of some two thousand  billion  tons  and
was  contained  within a black hole mounted in an electromagnetic
field situated half-way along the length of the  ship,  and  this
heat-sink  enabled  the  craft  to  be manoeuvred to within a few
miles of a yellow sun, there to catch and ride the  solar  flares
that burst out from its surface.

Flare-riding is one of the most exotic and exhilarating sports in
existence,  and  those who can dare and afford it are amongst the
most  lionized  men  in  the  Galaxy.  It  is  also   of   course
stupefyingly  dangerous  -  those who don't die riding invariably
die of sexual exhaustion at one of  the  Daedalus  Club's  Apres-
Flare parties.

Ford and Zaphod looked and passed on.

"And this baby," said Ford, "the tangerine star  buggy  with  the
black sunbusters ..."

Again, the star buggy was a small ship - a totally  misnamed  one
in   fact,   because   the  one  thing  it  couldn't  manage  was
interstellar distances. Basically it was a sporty  planet  hopper
dolled  up to something it wasn't. Nice lines though. They passed
on.

The next one was a big one and thirty yards long - a coach  built
limoship  and  obviously  designed  with one aim in mind, that of
making the beholder sick with envy. The paintwork  and  accessory
detail  clearly  said  "Not  only am I rich enough to afford this
ship, I am also rich enough not to take  it  seriously."  It  was
wonderfully hideous.

"Just look at  it,"  said  Zaphod,  "multi-cluster  quark  drive,
perspulex running boards. Got to be a Lazlar Lyricon custom job."

He examined every inch.

"Yes," he said,  "look,  the  infra-pink  lizard  emblem  on  the
neutrino cowling. Lazlar's trade mark. The man has no shame."

"I was passed by one of these  mothers  once,  out  by  the  Axel
Nebula,"  said  Ford,  "I  was going flat out and this thing just
strolled  past  me,  star  drive  hardly   ticking   over.   Just
incredible."

Zaphod whistled appreciatively.

"Ten seconds later", said Ford, "it  smashed  straight  into  the
third moon of Jaglan Beta."

"Yeah, right?"

"Amazing looking ship though. Looks like a  fish,  moves  like  a
fish, steers like a cow."

Ford looked round the other side.

"Hey, come and see," he called out, "there's a big mural  painted
on  this  side. A bursting sun - Disaster Area's trade mark. This
must be Hotblack's ship. Lucky old bugger. They do this  terrible
song  you know which ends with a stuntship crashing into the sun.
Meant to be  an  amazing  spectacle.  Expensive  in  stunt  ships
though."

Zaphod's attention  however  was  elsewhere.  His  attention  was
riveted on the ship standing next to Hotblack Desiato's limo. His
mouths hung open.

"That," he said, "that ... is really bad for the eyes ..."
Ford looked. He too stood astonished.

It was a ship of classic, simple design, like a flattened salmon,
twenty  yards  long,  very  clean, very sleek. There was just one
remarkable thing about it.

"It's so ... black!" said Ford Prefect, "you can hardly make  out
its shape ... light just seems to fall into it!"

Zaphod said nothing. He had simply fallen in love.

The blackness of it was so extreme that it was almost  impossible
to tell how close you were standing to it.

"Your eyes just slide off it ..." said Ford in wonder. It was  an
emotional moment. He bit his lip.

Zaphod moved forward to it, slowly, like a  man  possessed  -  or
more  accurately  like  a  man  who  wanted  to possess. His hand
reached out to stroke it. His hand stopped. His hand reached  out
to stroke it again. His hand stopped again.

"Come and feel the surface," he said in a hushed voice.

Ford put his hand out to feel it. His hand stopped.

"You ... you can't ..." he said.

"See?" said Zaphod, "it's just totally frictionless. This must be
one mother of a mover ..."

He turned to look at Ford seriously. At least, one of  his  heads
did - the other stayed gazing in awe at the ship.

"What do you reckon, Ford?" he said.

"You mean ... er ..." Ford looked over his  shoulder.  "You  mean
stroll off with it? You think we should?"

"No."

"Nor do I."

"But we're going to, aren't we?"

"How can we not?"

They gazed a little longer, till Zaphod suddenly  pulled  himself
together.

"We better shift soon," he said. "In a moment or so the  Universe
will  have  ended and all the Captain Creeps will be pouring down
here to find their bourge-mobiles."

"Zaphod," said Ford.

"Yeah?"

"How do we do it?"
"Simple," said Zaphod. He turned. "Marvin!" he called.

Slowly, laboriously, and  with  a  million  little  clanking  and
creaking  noises  that  he had learned to simulate, Marvin turned
round to answer the summons.

"Come on over here," said Zaphod, "We've got a job for you."

Marvin trudged towards them.

"I won't enjoy it," he said.

"Yes you will,"  enthused  Zaphod,  "there's  a  whole  new  life
stretching out ahead of you."

"Oh, not another one," groaned Marvin.

"Will you shut up and listen!" hissed Zaphod, "this time  there's
going to be excitement and adventure and really wild things."

"Sounds awful," Marvin said.

"Marvin! All I'm trying to ask you ..."

"I suppose you want me to open this spaceship for you?"

"What? Er ... yes. Yeah, that's right," said Zaphod  jumpily.  He
was keeping at least three eyes on the entrance. Time was short.

"Well I wish you'd just tell me rather  than  try  to  engage  my
enthusiasm," said Marvin, "because I haven't got one."

He walked on up to the ship, touched it,  and  a  hatchway  swung
open.

Ford and Zaphod stared at the opening.

"Don't mention it," said Marvin, "Oh,  you  didn't."  He  trudged
away again.

Arthur and Trillian clustered round.

"What's happening?" asked Arthur.

"Look at this," said Ford, "look at the interior of this ship."

"Weirder and weirder," breathed Zaphod.

"It's black," said Ford, "Everything in it is just totally  black
..."

In the Restaurant, things were fast approaching the moment  after
which there wouldn't be any more moments.

All eyes were fixed on the dome, other  than  those  of  Hotblack
Desiato's  bodyguard,  which  were  looking  intently at Hotblack
Desiato,  and  those  of  Hotblack  Desiato  himself  which   the
bodyguard had closed out of respect.
The bodyguard leaned forward over the table. Had Hotblack Desiato
been  alive,  he probably would have deemed this a good moment to
lean back, or even go for a short walk. His bodyguard was  not  a
man  which improved with proximity. On account of his unfortunate
condition, however, Hotblack Desiato remained totally inert.

"Mr Desiato, sir?" whispered the bodyguard. Whenever he spoke, it
looked  as  if  the  muscles  on  either  side  of his mouth were
clambering over each other to get out of the way.

"Mr Desiato? Can you hear me?"

Hotblack Desiato, quit naturally, said nothing.

"Hotblack?" hissed the bodyguard.

Again,  quite  naturally,  Hotblack  Desiato   did   not   reply.
Supernaturally, however, he did.

On the table in front of him a wine glass  rattled,  and  a  fork
rose  an  inch  or so and tapped against the glass. It settled on
the table again.

The bodyguard gave a satisfied grunt.

"It's time we get going, Mr  Desiato,"  muttered  the  bodyguard,
"don't want to get caught in the rush, not in your condition. You
want to get to the next gig nice and relaxed. There was a  really
big  audience  for  it.  One of the best. Kakrafoon. Five-hundred
seventy-six thousand and two million years ago. Had you will have
been looking forward to it?"

The fork rose again, waggled in a non-committal sort of  way  and
dropped again.

"Ah, come on," said the  bodyguard,  "it's  going  to  have  been
great.  You  knocked 'em cold." The bodyguard would have given Dr
Dan Streetmentioner an apoplectic attack.

"The black ship going into the sun always gets 'em, and  the  new
one's  a  beauty.  Be  real sorry to see it go. If we get on down
there, I'll set the black ship autopilot and we'll cruise off  in
the limo. OK?"

The fork  tapped  once  in  agreement,  and  the  glass  of  wine
mysteriously emptied itself.

The  bodyguard  wheeled  Hotblack  Desiato's  chair  out  of  the
Restaurant.

"And now," cried Max from the centre of the  stage,  "the  moment
you've  all  been  waiting  for!" He flung his arms into the air.
Behind him, the band went into a frenzy of percussion and rolling
synthochords.  Max  had  argued with them about this but they had
claimed it was in their contract that that's what they would  do.
His agent would have to sort it out.

"The skies begin to boil!" he cried. "Nature collapses  into  the
screaming void! In twenty seconds' time, the Universe itself will
be at an end! See where the light of infinity bursts in upon us!"

The hideous fury of destruction blazed about them - and  at  that
moment  a  still  small  trumpet  sounded  as  from  an  infinite
distance. Max's eyes swivelled round to glare at the  band.  None
of  them seemed to be playing a trumpet. Suddenly a wisp of smoke
was swirling and shimmering on the stage next to him. The trumpet
was joined by more trumpets. Over five hundred times Max had done
this show, and nothing like this had  ever  happened  before.  He
drew  back  in alarm from the swirling smoke, and as he did so, a
figure slowly materialized inside, the figure of an ancient  man,
bearded,  robed and wreathed in light. In his eyes were stars and
on his brow a golden crown.

"What's this?" whispered Max, wild-eyed, "what's happening?"

At the back of the Restaurant  the  stony-faced  party  from  the
Church  of  the  Second Coming of the Great Prophet Zarquon leapt
ecstatically to their feet chanting and crying.

Max blinked in amazement. He threw up his arms to the audience.

"A big hand please, ladies and gentlemen," he hollered, "for  the
Great Prophet Zarquon! He has come! Zarquon has come again!"

Thunderous applause broke out as Max strode across the stage  and
handed his microphone to the Prophet.

Zarquon coughed. He peered round at the assembled gathering.  The
stars  in  his  eyes  blinked uneasily. He handled the microphone
with confusion.

"Er ..." he said, "hello. Er, look, I'm sorry  I'm  a  bit  late.
I've  had  the most ghastly time, all sorts of things cropping up
at the last moment."

He seemed nervous of the expectant  awed  hush.  He  cleared  his
throat.

"Er, how are we for time?" he said, "have I just got a min-"

And so the Universe ended.




One of the major selling point of that wholly  remarkable  travel
book,  the  Hitch  Hiker's  Guide  to  the Galaxy, apart from its
relative cheapness and the fact that it has the words Don't Panic
written   in   large  friendly  letters  on  its  cover,  is  its
compendious and occasionally accurate  glossary.  The  statistics
relating  to the geo-social nature of the Universe, for instance,
are deftly set out between pages nine  hundred  and  thirty-eight
thousand  and  twenty-four  and  nine  hundred  and  thirty-eight
thousand and twenty-six; and the simplistic style in  which  they
are  written  is  partly  explained by the fact that the editors,
having to meet a publishing deadline, copied the information  off
the back of a packet of breakfast cereal, hastily embroidering it
with a few footnoted in order  to  avoid  prosecution  under  the
incomprehensibly tortuous Galactic Copyright laws.

It is interesting to note that a later and wilier editor sent the
book  backwards  in  time  through  a  temporal  warp,  and  then
successfully sued the breakfast cereal company  for  infringement
of the same laws.

Here is a sample:

The Universe - some information to help you live in it.

\begin{center}
\begin{itemize}
\item[Area: Infinite.]

The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy offers this  definition  of
the word "Infinite".

Infinite: Bigger than the biggest thing ever and then some.  Much
bigger  than  that  in  fact, really amazingly immense, a totally
stunning size, "wow, that's big", time. Infinity is just  so  big
that  by comparison, bigness itself looks really titchy. Gigantic
multiplied by colossal multiplied by  staggeringly  huge  is  the
sort of concept we're trying to get across here.

\item[Imports: None.]

It is impossible to import things into an  infinite  area,  there
being no outside to import things in from.

\item[Exports: None.]

See imports.

\item[Population: None.]

It is known that there are an infinite number of  worlds,  simply
because  there  is an infinite amount of space for them to be in.
However, not every one of them  is  inhabited.  Therefore,  there
must  be  a  finite number of inhabited worlds. Any finite number
divided by infinity is as near to nothing as makes  no  odds,  so
the  average population of all the planets in the Universe can be
said to be zero. From this it follows that the population of  the
whole  Universe  is  also  zero, and that any people you may meet
from  time  to  time  are  merely  the  products  of  a  deranged
imagination.

\item[Monetary Units: None.]

In fact there are three  freely  convertible  currencies  in  the
Galaxy,  but none of them count. The Altairan Dollar has recently
collapsed, the Flaninian Pobble Bead  is  only  exchangeable  for
other  Flaninian  Pobble  Beads,  and the Triganic Pu has its own
very special problems. Its exchange rate of eight Ningis  to  one
Pu  is  simple  enough,  but since a Ningi is a triangular rubber
coin six thousand eight hundred miles across each  side,  no  one
has  ever  collected  enough  to  own  one  Pu.  Ningis  are  not
negotiable currency because the Galactibanks refuse  to  deal  in
fiddling  small change. From this basic premise it is very simple
to prove that the Galactibanks are also the product of a deranged
imagination.

\item[Art: None.]

The function of art is to hold the mirror up to nature, and there
simply isn't a mirror big enough - see point one.

\item[Sex: None.]

Well, in fact there is an awful lot of this, largely  because  of
the total lack of money, trade, banks, art, or anything else that
might keep all the non-existent people of the Universe occupied.

However, it is not worth embarking on a long discussion of it now
because   it   really   is   terribly  complicated.  For  further
information  see  Guide  Chapters  seven,  nine,   ten,   eleven,
fourteen, sixteen, seventeen, nineteen, twenty-one to eighty-four
inclusive, and in fact most of the rest of the Guide.

\end{itemize}
\end{center}



The  Restaurant  continued  existing,  but  everything  else  had
stopped.  Temporal  relastatics  held  it  and  protected it in a
nothingness that wasn't merely a vacuum, it was simply nothing  -
there was nothing in which a vacuum could be said to exist.

The force-shielded dome had once again been rendered opaque,  the
party  was  over,  the  diners were leaving, Zarquon had vanished
along with the rest of  the  Universe,  the  Time  Turbines  were
preparing to pull the Restaurant back across the brink of time in
readiness for the lunch sitting, and Max Quordlepleen was back in
his  small  curtained  dressing room trying to raise his agent on
the tempophone.

In the car park stood the black ship, closed and silent.

In to the car park came the late Mr Hotblack  Desiato,  propelled
along the moving catwalk by his bodyguard.

They descended one of the tubes. As they approached the  limoship
a  hatchway  swung  down from its side, engaged the wheels of the
wheelchair and drew it inside. The bodyguard followed, and having
seen  his  boss  safely connected up to his death-support system,
moved up to the  small  cockpit.  Here  he  operated  the  remote
control  system  which  activated the autopilot in the black ship
lying next to the limo,  thus  causing  great  relief  to  Zaphod
Beeblebrox  who  had  been trying to start the thing for over ten
minutes.

The black ship glided smoothly forward out of  its  bay,  turned,
and  moved  down the central causeway swiftly and quietly. At the
end it accelerated rapidly, flung itself into the temporal launch
chamber and began the long journey back into the distant past.

The Milliways Lunch Menu quotes, by permission,  a  passage  from
the Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy. The passage is this:

The History of every major Galactic Civilization  tends  to  pass
through   three   distinct  and  recognizable  phases,  those  of
Survival, Inquiry and Sophistication, otherwise known as the How,
Why and Where phases.

For instance, the first phase is characterized  by  the  question
"How  can  we  eat?", the second by the question "Why do we eat?"
and the third by the question, "Where shall we have lunch?"

The Menu goes on to suggest that Milliways, the Restaurant at the
End  of the Universe, would be a very agreeable and sophisticated
answer to that third question.

What it doesn't go on to say is that though it will usually  take
a  large civilization many thousands of years to pass through the
How, Why and Where phases, small social groupings under stressful
conditions can pass through them with extreme rapidity.

"How are we doing?" said Arthur Dent.

"Badly," said Ford Prefect.

"Where are we going?" said Trillian.

"I don't know," said Zaphod Beeblebrox.

"Why not?" demanded Arthur Dent.

"Shut up," suggested Zaphod Beeblebrox and Ford Prefect.

"Basically,  what  you're  trying  to  say,"  said  Arthur  Dent,
ignoring this suggestion, "is that we're out of control."

The ship was rocking and swaying sickeningly as Ford  and  Zaphod
tried to wrest control from the autopilot. The engined howled and
whined like tired children in a supermarket.

"It's the wild colour scheme that freaks me," said  Zaphod  whose
love  affair  with this ship had lasted almost three minutes into
the flight, "Every time you try to  operate  on  of  these  weird
black  controls that are labelled in black on a black background,
a little black light lights up black to let you know you've  done
it. What is this? Some kind of galactic hyperhearse?"

The walls of the swaying cabin were also black, the  ceiling  was
black,  the  seats  -  which  were  rudimentary  since  the  only
important trip this ship was designed  for  was  supposed  to  be
unmanned   -  were  black,  the  control  panel  was  black,  the
instruments were black, the little screws that held them in place
were  black,  the thin tufted nylon floor covering was black, and
when they had lifted up a corner of it they had  discovered  that
the foam underlay also was black.

"Perhaps whoever designed it had eyes that responded to different
wavelengths," offered Trillian.

"Or didn't have much imagination," muttered Arthur.

"Perhaps," said Marvin, "he was feeling very depressed."
In fact, though they weren't to  know  it,  the  decor  had  been
chosen in honour of its owner's sad, lamented, and tax-deductible
condition.

The ship gave a particularly sickening lurch.

"Take it easy," pleaded Arthur, "you're making me space sick."

"Time sick,"  said  Ford,  "we're  plummeting  backwards  through
time."

"Thank you," said Arthur, "now I think I really am  going  to  be
ill."

"Go ahead," said Zaphod, "we could do with a little colour  about
this place."

"This is meant to be a polite after-dinner conversation  is  it?"
snapped Arthur.

Zaphod left the controls for Ford to figure out, and lurched over
to Arthur.

"Look, Earthman," he said angrily,  "you've  got  a  job  to  do,
right? The Question to the Ultimate Answer, right?"

"What, that thing?" said Arthur, "I thought we'd forgotten  about
that."

"Not me, baby. Like the mice said, it's worth a lot of  money  in
the  right quarters. And it's all locked up in that head thing of
yours."

"Yes but ..."

"But nothing! Think about it. The Meaning of  Life!  We  get  our
fingers  on  that  we  can  hold every shrink in the Galaxy up to
ransom, and that's worth a bundle. I owe mine a mint."

Arthur took a deep breath without much enthusiasm.

"Alright," he said, "but where do we start? How  should  I  know?
They  say  the Ultimate Answer or whatever is Forty-two, how am I
supposed to know what the question is? It could  be  anything.  I
mean, what's six times seven?"

Zaphod looked at him hard for a moment. Then his eyes blazed with
excitement.

"Forty-two!" he cried.

Arthur wiped his palm across his forehead.

"Yes," he said patiently," I know that."

Zaphod's faces fell.

"I'm just saying that the question could  be  anything  at  all,"
said Arthur, "and I don't see how I am meant to know."
"Because," hissed Zaphod, "you were there when  your  planet  did
the big firework."

"We have a thing on Earth ..." began Arthur.

"Had," corrected Zaphod.

"... called tact. Oh never mind. Look, I just don't know."

A low voice echoed dully round the cabin.

"I know," said Marvin.

Ford called out from the controls he was still fighting a  losing
battle with.

"Stay out of this Marvin," he said, "this is organism talk."

"It's printed in the Earthman's  brainwave  patterns,"  continued
Marvin, "but I don't suppose you'll be very interested in knowing
that."

"You mean," said Arthur, "you mean you can see into my mind?"

"Yes," said Marvin.

Arthur stared in astonishment.

"And ...?" he said.

"It amazes me how you can manage to live in anything that small."

"Ah," said Arthur, "abuse."

"Yes," confirmed Marvin.

"Ah, ignore him," said Zaphod, "he's only making it up."

"Making it up?" said Marvin, swivelling his head in a  parody  of
astonishment,  "Why should I want to make anything up? Life's bad
enough as it is without wanting to invent any more of it."

"Marvin," said Trillian in the gentle, kindly voice that only she
was  still  capable  of  assuming  in talking to this misbegotten
creature, "if you knew all along, why then didn't you tell us?"

Marvin's head swivelled back to her.

"You didn't ask," he said simply.

"Well, we're asking you now, metal man," said Ford, turning round
to look at him.

At that moment the ship suddenly stopped rocking and swaying, the
engine pitch settled down to a gentle hum.

"Hey, Ford," said Zaphod, "that sounds good. Have you worked  out
the controls of this boat?"
"No," said Ford, "I just stopped fiddling with them. I reckon  we
just go to wherever this ship is going and get off it fast."

"Yeah, right," said Zaphod.

"I could tell you weren't really interested," murmured Marvin  to
himself and slumped into a corner and switched himself off.

"Trouble is," said Ford, "that the one instrument in  this  while
ship  that  is giving any reading is worrying me. If it is what I
think it is, and if it's saying what I think  it's  saying,  then
we've  already  gone too far back into the past. Maybe as much as
two million years before our own time."

Zaphod shrugged.

"Time is bunk," he said.

"I wonder who this ship belongs to anyway," said Arthur.

"Me," said Zaphod.

"No. Who it really belongs to."

"Really me," insisted Zaphod, "look, property  is  theft,  right?
Therefore theft is property. Therefore this ship is mine, OK?"

"Tell the ship that," said Arthur.

Zaphod strode over to the console.

"Ship," he said, banging on the panels, "this is your  new  owner
speaking to ..."

He got no further. Several things happened at once.

The ship dropped out fo time travel mode and re-emerged into real
space.

All the controls on the console, which had been shut down for the
time trip now lit up.

A  large  vision  screen  above  the  console  winked  into  life
revealing a wide starscape and a single very large sun dead ahead
of them.

None of these things, however, were responsible for the fact that
Zaphod was at the same moment hurled bodily backwards against the
rear of the cabin, as were all the others.

They were hurled back by a single thunderous clap of  noise  that
thuddered  out  of  the  monitor  speakers surrounding the vision
screen.




Down on the dry, red world of Kakrafoon, in  the  middle  of  the
vast  Rudlit Desert, the stage technicians were testing the sound
system.

That is to say, the sound system was in the desert, not the stage
technicians.  They had retreated to the safety of Disaster Area's
giant control ship which hung in orbit some  four  hundred  miles
above  the surface of the planet, and they were testing the sound
system from there. Anyone within five miles of the speaker  silos
wouldn't have survived the tuning up.

If Arthur Dent had been within five miles of  the  speaker  silos
then  his  expiring thought would have been that in both size and
shape the sound rig closely resembled Manhattan. Risen out of the
silos,  the  neutron  phase  speaker  stacks  towered monstrously
against the sky, obscuring the banks of  plutonium  reactors  and
seismic amps behind them.

Buried deep in concrete bunkers beneath the city of speakers  lay
the instruments that the musicians would control from their ship,
the massive photon-ajuitar, the bass detonator and  the  Megabang
drum complex.

It was going to be a noisy show.

Aboard the giant control  ship,  all  was  activity  and  bustle.
Hotblack  Desiato's  limoship,  a  mere  tadpole  beside  it, had
arrived  and  docked,  and  the  lamented  gentleman  was   being
transported  down  the  high vaulted corridors to meet the medium
who was going to interpret his psychic impulses on to the ajuitar
keyboard.

A doctor, a  logician  and  a  marine  biologist  had  also  just
arrived,  flown  in at phenomenal expense from Maximegalon to try
to reason with the lead singer who  had  locked  himself  in  the
bathroom with a bottle of pills and was refusing to come out till
it could be proved conclusively to him that he wasn't a fish. The
bass  player was busy machine-gunning his bedroom and the drummer
was nowhere on board.

Frantic inquiries led to the discovery that he was standing on  a
beach  on Santraginus V over a hundred light years away where, he
claimed, he had been happy over half an hour now and had found  a
small stone that would be his friend.

The band's manager was profoundly relieved. It meant that for the
seventeenth  time  on  this  tour  the drums would be played by a
robot and that therefore the timing of the cymbalistics would  be
right.

The sub-ether was buzzing with the communications  of  the  stage
technicians  testing  the  speaker channels, and this it was that
was being relayed to the interior of the black ship.

Its dazed occupants lay against the back wall of the  cabin,  and
listened to the voices on the monitor speakers.

"OK, channel nine on  power,"  said  a  voice,  "testing  channel
fifteen ..."
Another thumping crack of noise walloped through the ship.

"Channel fifteen AOK," said another voice.

A third voice cut in.

"The black stunt ship is now in position," it said, "it's looking
good. Gonna be a great sundive. Stage computer on line?"

A computer voice answered.

"On line," it said.

"Take control of the black ship."

"Black ship locked into trajectory programme, on standby."

"Testing channel twenty."

Zaphod leaped across the cabin and switched  frequencies  on  the
sub-ether  receiver  before  the  next mind-pulverizing noise hit
them. He stood there quivering.

"What," said Trillian in  a  small  quiet  voice,  "does  sundive
mean?"

"It means," said Marvin, "that the ship os going to dive into the
sun.  Sun  ...  Dive. It's very simple to understand. What do you
expect if you steal Hotblack Desiato's stunt ship?"

"How do you know ..." said Zaphod in a voice that  would  make  a
Vegan  snow  lizard feel chilly, "that this is Hotblack Desiato's
stuntship?"

"Simple," said Marvin, "I parked it for him."

"The why ... didn't ... you ... tell us!"

"You said you wanted excitement and  adventure  and  really  wild
things."

"This is awful," said Arthur unnecessarily  in  the  pause  which
followed.

"That's what I said," confirmed Marvin.

On a different frequency, the sub-ether receiver had picked up  a
public broadcast, which now echoed round the cabin.

"... fine weather  for  the  concert  here  this  afternoon.  I'm
standing  here in front of the stage," the reporter lied, "in the
middle of the Rudlit Desert, and with the  aid  of  hyperbinoptic
glasses  I  can  just  about  make out the huge audience cowering
there on the horizon all around me. Behind me the speaker  stacks
rise  like  a  sheer  cliff  face,  and  high above me the sun is
shining away and  doesn't  know  what's  going  to  hit  it.  The
environmentalist  lobby  do know what's going to hit it, and they
claim that the  concert  will  cause  earthquakes,  tidal  waves,
hurricanes,  irreparable  damage  to  the atmosphere, and all the
usual things that environmentalists usually go on about.

"But I've just had a report that  a  representative  of  Disaster
Area  met  with  the environmentalists at lunchtime, and had them
all shot, so nothing now lies in the way of ..."

Zaphod switched it off. He turned to Ford.

"You know what I'm thinking?" he said.

"I think so," said Ford.

"Tell me what you think I'm thinking."

"I think you're thinking it's time we get off this ship."

"I think you're right," said Zaphod.

"I think you're right," said Ford.

"How?" said Arthur.

"Quiet," said Ford and Zaphod, "we're thinking."

"So this is it," said Arthur, "we're going to die."

"I wish you'd stop saying that," said Ford.

It is worth repeating at this point the theories  that  Ford  had
come  up  with,  on  his  first  encounter  with human beings, to
account for their  peculiar  habit  of  continually  stating  and
restating  the  very  very  obvious,  as it 'It's a nice day," or
"You're very tall," or "So this is it, we're going to die."

His first theory was that if human beings didn't keep  exercising
their lips, their mouths probably seized up.

After a few months of observation he had come up  with  a  second
theory,  which  was this - "If human beings don't keep exercising
their lips, their brains start working."

In fact, this  second  theory  is  more  literally  true  of  the
Belcebron people of Kakrafoon.

The  Belcebron  people  used  to  cause  great   resentment   and
insecurity  amongst  neighboring  races  by being one of the most
enlightened, accomplished, and above all quiet  civilizations  in
the Galaxy.

As a  punishment  for  this  behaviour,  which  was  held  to  be
offensively  self  righteous and provocative, a Galactic Tribunal
inflicted on  them  that  most  cruel  of  all  social  diseases,
telepathy.   Consequently,   in   order   to  prevent  themselves
broadcasting every slightest thought that crossed their minds  to
anyone  within  a  five  mile  radius, they now have to talk very
loudly and continuously about the weather, their little aches and
pains,  the match this afternoon and what a noisy place Kakrafoon
had suddenly become.
Another method of temporarily blotting out their minds is to play
host to a Disaster Area concert.

The timing of the concert was critical.

The ship had to begin its dive before the concert began in  order
to  hit  the  sun six minutes and thirty-seven seconds before the
climax of the song to which it related, so that the light of  the
solar flares had time to travel out to Kakrafoon.

The ship had already been diving for several minutes by the  time
that   Ford  Prefect  had  completed  his  search  of  the  other
compartments of the black ship. He burst back into the cabin.

The sun of Kakrafoon loomed  terrifyingly  large  on  the  vision
screen,  its  blazing  white  inferno  of  fusing hydrogen nuclei
growing moment by moment as the ship plunged  onwards,  unheeding
the  thumping and banging of Zaphod's hands on the control panel.
Arthur and Trillian had the fixed expressions  of  rabbits  on  a
night   road  who  think  that  the  best  way  of  dealing  with
approaching headlights is to stare them out.

Zaphod span round, wild-eyed.

"Ford," he said, "how many escape capsules are there?"

"None," said Ford.

Zaphod gibbered.

"Did you count them?" he yelled.

"Twice," said Ford, "did you manage to raise the  stage  crew  on
the radio?"

"Yeah," said Zaphod, bitterly, "I said there were a  whole  bunch
of people on board, and they said to say `hi' to everybody."

Ford goggled.

"Didn't you tell them who we were?"

"Oh yeah. They said it was a great  honour.  That  and  something
about a restaurant bill and my executors."

Ford pushed Arthur aside and  leaned  forward  over  the  control
console.

"Does none of this function?" he said savagely.

"All overridden."

"Smash the autopilot."

"Find it first. Nothing connects."

There was a moment's cold silence.

Arthur was stumbling round the back  of  the  cabin.  He  stopped
suddenly.

"Incidentally," he said, "what does teleport mean?"

Another moment passed.

Slowly, the others turned to face him.

"Probably the wrong moment to ask," said  Arthur,  "It's  just  I
remember  hearing  you  use the word a short while ago and I only
bring it up because ..."

"Where," said Ford Prefect quietly, "does it say teleport?"

"Well, just over here in fact," said Arthur, pointing at  a  dark
control  box  in  the  rear  of  the  cabin, "Just under the word
`emergency', above the word `system' and beside the  sign  saying
`out of order'."

In the pandemonium that instantly followed, the  only  action  to
follow  was  that of Ford Prefect lunging across the cabin to the
small black box that Arthur had indicated and stabbing repeatedly
at the single small black button set into it.

A  six-foot  square  panel  slid  open  beside  it  revealing   a
compartment which resembled a multiple shower unit that had found
a new function in life as  an  electrician's  junk  store.  Half-
finished  wiring  hung  from  the  ceiling, a jumble of abandoned
components lay strewn on the floor,  and  the  programming  panel
lolled  out  of  the cavity in the wall into which it should have
been secured.

A junior Disaster Area accountant, visiting  the  shipyard  where
this  ship  was  being  constructed,  had demanded to know of the
works foreman  why  the  hell  they  were  fitting  an  extremely
expensive  teleport  into  a  ship  which  only had one important
journey to make, and that unmanned.  The  foreman  had  explained
that  the  teleport  was available at a ten per cent discount and
the accountant  had  explained  that  this  was  immaterial;  the
foreman  had  explained that it was the finest, most powerful and
sophisticated teleport that money could buy  and  the  accountant
had  explained that the money did not wish to buy it; the foreman
had explained that people would still need to enter and leave the
ship  and  the  accountant  had explained that the ship sported a
perfectly serviceable door; the foreman had  explained  that  the
accountant  could  go  and  boil  his head and the accountant had
explained to the foreman that the thing approaching  him  rapidly
from  his left was a knuckle sandwich. After the explanations had
been concluded, work  was  discontinued  on  the  teleport  which
subsequently  passed  unnoticed on the invoice as "Sund. explns."
at five times the price.

"Hell's donkeys," muttered Zaphod as he  and  Ford  attempted  to
sort through the tangle of wiring.

After a moment or so Ford told him to stand  back.  He  tossed  a
coin  into  the  teleport  and  jiggled  a  switch on the lolling
control panel. With  a  crackle  and  spit  of  light,  the  coin
vanished.
"That much of  it  works,"  said  Ford,  "however,  there  is  no
guidance  system. A matter transference teleport without guidance
programming could put you ... well, anywhere."

The sun of Kakrafoon loomed huge on the screen.

"Who cares," said Zaphod, "we go where we go."

"And," said Ford, "there is no autosystem. We  couldn't  all  go.
Someone would have to stay and operate it."

A solemn moment shuffled past. The sun loomed larger and larger.

"Hey, Marvin kid," said Zaphod brightly, "how you doing?"

"Very badly I suspect," muttered Marvin.

A shortish while later,  the  concert  on  Kakrafoon  reached  an
unexpected climax.

The black ship with its single morose  occupant  had  plunged  on
schedule  into  the  nuclear  furnace  of  the sun. Massive solar
flares licked out from it millions of miles into space, thrilling
and  in a few cases spilling the dozen or so Flare Riders who had
been coasting close to the surface of the sun in anticipation  of
the moment.

Moments before the flare light  reached  Kakrafoon  the  pounding
desert  cracked  along  a  deep  faultline.  A  huge and hitherto
undetected underground river lying far beneath the surface gushed
to  the  surface  to be followed seconds later by the eruption of
millions of tons of boiling lava that  flowed  hundreds  of  feet
into the air, instantaneously vaporizing the river both above and
below the surface in an explosion that echoed to the far side  of
the world and back again.

Those - very few - who witnessed the  event  and  survived  swear
that  the  whole hundred thousand square miles of the desert rose
into the air like a mile-thick pancake, flipped itself  over  and
fell  back  down. At that precise moment the solar radiation from
the flares filtered through the clouds  of  vaporized  water  and
struck the ground.

A year later, the hundred thousand square mile desert  was  thick
with  flowers.  The structure of the atmosphere around the planet
was subtly altered. The sun blazed less harshly  in  the  summer,
the cold bit less bitterly in the winter, pleasant rain fell more
often,  and  slowly  the  desert  world  of  Kakrafoon  became  a
paradise.  Even  the  telepathic  power  with which the people of
Kakrafoon had been cursed was permanently dispersed by the  force
of the explosion.

A spokesman for Disaster Area - the  one  who  had  had  all  the
environmentalists  shot  - was later quoted as saying that it had
been "a good gig".

Many people spoke movingly of the healing powers of music. A  few
sceptical  scientists  examined  the  records  of the events more
closely, and claimed that they had discovered faint vestiges of a
vast  artificially induced Improbability Field drifting in from a
nearby region of space.




Arthur woke up and instantly regretted it.  Hangovers  he'd  had,
but  never  anything on this scale. This was it, this was the big
one, this was the ultimate pits. Matter  transference  beams,  he
decided,  were  not as much fun as, say, a good solid kick in the
head.

Being for the moment unwilling to  move  on  account  of  a  dull
stomping  throb  he was experiencing, he lay a while and thought.
The  trouble  with  most  forms  of  transport,  he  thought,  is
basically  one of them not being worth all the bother. On Earth -
when there had been an Earth, before it was  demolished  to  make
way for a new hyperspace bypass - the problem had been with cars.
The disadvantages involved in pulling lots of black sticky  slime
from  out  of  the  ground where it had been safely hidden out of
harm's way, turning it into tar to cover the land with, smoke  to
fill  the  air with and pouring the rest into the sea, all seemed
to outweigh the advantages of being able to get more quickly from
one place to another - particularly when the place you arrived at
had probably become, as a result of this,  very  similar  to  the
place  you  had  left,  i.e.  covered with tar, full of smoke and
short of fish.

And what about matter transference beams? Any form  of  transport
which  involved  tearing  you  apart atom by atom, flinging those
atoms through the sub-ether, and then jamming them back  together
again  just  when  they were getting their first taste of freedom
for years had to be bad news.

Many people had thought exactly this before Arthur Dent  and  had
even  gone  to the lengths of writing songs about it. Here is one
that used regularly to be chanted  by  huge  crowds  outside  the
Sirius   Cybernetics  Corporation  Teleport  Systems  factory  on
Happi-Werld III:

Aldebaran's great, OK,

Algol's pretty neat,

Betelgeuse's pretty girls,

Will knock you off your feet.

They'll do anything you like,

Real fast and then real slow,

But if you have to take me apart to get me there,

Then I don't want to go.

Singing,
Take me apart, take me apart,

What a way to roam,

And if you have to take me apart to get me there,

I'd rather stay at home.

Sirius is paved with gold

So I've heard it said

By nuts who then go on to say

"See Tau before you're dead."

I'll gladly take the high road

Or even take the low,

But if you have to take me apart to get me there,

Then I, for one, won't go.

Singing,

Take me apart, take me apart, You must be off your head,

And if you try to take me apart to get me there,

I'll stay right here in bed.


I teleported home one night,

With Ron and Sid and Meg,

Ron stole Meggie's heart away,

And I got Sidney's leg.

Arthur felt the waves of pain  slowly  receding,  though  he  was
still aware of a dull stomping throb. Slowly, carefully, he stood
up.

"Can you hear a dull stomping throb?" said Ford Prefect.

Arthur span round  and  wobbled  uncertainly.  Ford  Prefect  was
approaching looking red eyed and pasty.

"Where are we?" gasped Arthur.

Ford looked around. They were standing in a long curving corridor
which  stretched out of sight in both directions. The outer steel
wall - which was painted in that sickly shade of pale green which
they  use  in  schools,  hospitals and mental asylums to keep the
inmates subdued - curved over the tops of their  heads  where  it
met  the inner perpendicular wall which, oddly enough was covered
in dark brown hessian wall weave. The floor  was  of  dark  green
ribbed rubber.

Ford moved over to a very thick dark transparent panel set in the
outer  wall.  It was several layers deep, yet through it he could
see pinpoints of distant stars.

"I think we're in a spaceship of some kind," he said.

Down the corridor came the sound of a dull stomping throb.

"Trillian?" called Arthur nervously, "Zaphod?"

Ford shrugged.

"Nowhere about," he said, "I've looked. They could  be  anywhere.
An  unprogrammed  teleport  can  throw  you  light  years  in any
direction. Judging by  the  way  I  feel  I  should  think  we've
travelled a very long way indeed."

"How do you feel?"

"Bad."

"Do you think they're ..."

"Where they are, how they are, there's no way we can know and  no
way we can do anything about it. Do what I do."

"What?"

"Don't think about it."

Arthur turned this thought over in his mind, reluctantly saw  the
wisdom  of  it,  tucked  it  up  and  put it away. He took a deep
breath.

"Footsteps!" exclaimed Ford suddenly.

"Where?"

"That noise. That stomping throb. Pounding feet. Listen!"

Arthur listened. The noise echoed round the corridor at them from
an  indeterminate  distance. It was the muffled sound of pounding
footsteps, and it was noticeably louder.

"Let's move," said Ford sharply. They both moved  -  in  opposite
directions.

"Not that way," said Ford, "that's where they're coming from."

"No it's not," said Arthur, "They're coming from that way."

"They're not, they're ..."

They both stopped. They both turned. They both listened intently.
They both agreed with each other. They both set off into opposite
directions again.
Fear gripped them.

>From both directions the noise was getting louder.

A few yards to their left another corridor ran at right angles to
the inner wall. They ran to it and hurried along it. It was dark,
immensely long and,  as  they  passed  down  it,  gave  them  the
impression that it was getting colder and colder. Other corridors
gave off it to the left  and  right,  each  very  dark  and  each
subjecting them to sharp blasts of icy air as they passed.

They stopped for a moment in alarm. The further down the corridor
they went, the louder became the sound of pounding feet.

They pressed themselves back against the cold wall  and  listened
furiously.  The  cold,  the  dark and the drumming of disembodied
feet was getting to them badly. Ford shivered,  partly  with  the
cold,  but partly with the memory of stories his favourite mother
used to tell him when he was a mere slip of a Betelgeusian, ankle
high  to  an  Arcturan  Megagrasshopper:  stories  of dead ships,
haunted hulks that roamed restlessly round the  obscurer  regions
of  deep  space  infested  with demons or the ghosts of forgotten
crews; stories too of incautious travellers who found and entered
such  ships;  stories  of  ...  -  then Ford remembered the brown
hessian wall weave in  the  first  corridor  and  pulled  himself
together.  However ghosts and demons may choose to decorate their
death hulks, he thought to himself, he would lay  any  money  you
liked it wasn't with hessian wall weave. He grasped Arthur by the
arm.

"Back the way we came,"  he  said  firmly  and  they  started  to
retrace their steps.

A moment later they leap like startled lizards down  the  nearest
corridor  junction  as  the  owners of the drumming feet suddenly
hove into view directly in front of them.

Hidden behind the corner they goggled in amazement as  about  two
dozen  overweight  men and women pounded past them in track suits
panting and wheezing in a manner that would make a heart  surgeon
gibber.

Ford Prefect stared after them.

"Joggers!" he hissed, as the sound of their feet echoed  away  up
and down the network of corridors.

"Joggers?" whispered Arthur Dent.

"Joggers," said Ford prefect with a shrug.

The corridor they were concealed in was not like the  others.  It
was  very  short,  and ended at a large steel door. Ford examined
it, discovered the opening mechanism and pushed it wide.

The first thing that hit their eyes was what  appeared  to  be  a
coffin.

And the next four thousand nine hundred  and  ninety-nine  things
that hit their eyes were also coffins.




The vault was low ceilinged, dimly lit and gigantic. At  the  far
end,  about  three  hundred  yards away an archway let through to
what appeared to be a similar chamber, similarly occupied.

Ford Prefect let out a low whistle as he stepped down on  to  the
floor of the vault.

"Wild," he said.

"What's so great about  dead  people?"  asked  Arthur,  nervously
stepping down after him.

"Dunno," said Ford, "Let's find out shall we?"

On  closer  inspection  the  coffins  seemed  to  be  more   like
sarcophagi.  They  stood about waist high and were constructed of
what appeared to be white marble, which is almost certainly  what
it  was  -  something  that only appeared to be white marble. The
tops were semi-translucent,  and  through  them  could  dimly  be
perceived  the  features  of  their  late and presumably lamented
occupants. They were humanoid, and had clearly left the  troubles
of  whatever  world  it  was  they came from far behind them, but
beyond that little else could be discerned.

Rolling slowly round the  floor  between  the  sarcophagi  was  a
heavy,  oily  white  gas  which  Arthur at first thought might be
there to give the place a little atmosphere until  he  discovered
that  it also froze his ankles. The sarcophagi too were intensely
cold to the touch.

Ford suddenly crouched down beside  one  of  them.  He  pulled  a
corner  of  his  towel  out  of  his  satchel  and started to rub
furiously at something.

"Look, there's a plaque on this one,"  he  explained  to  Arthur,
"It's frosted over."

He rubbed the frost clear and examined the  engraved  characters.
To  Arthur  they  looked like the footprints of a spider that had
had one too many of whatever it is that spiders have on  a  night
out,  but  Ford  instantly  recognized  an early form of Galactic
Eezeereed.

"It says `Golgafrincham Ark Fleet, Ship B, Hold Seven,  Telephone
Sanitizer Second Class' - and a serial number."

"A  telephone  sanitizer?"  said  Arthur,   "a   dead   telephone
sanitizer?"

"Best kind."

"But what's he doing here?"

Ford peered through the top at the figure within.
"Not a lot," he said, and suddenly flashed one of those grins  of
his  which  always  made  people think he'd been overdoing things
recently and should try to get some rest.

He scampered over to another sarcophagus. A moment's brisk  towel
work and he announced:

"This one's a dead hairdresser. Hoopy!"

The next sarcophagus revealed itself to be the last resting place
of an advertising account executive; the one after that contained
a second-hand car salesman, third class.

An inspection hatch let into the  floor  suddenly  caught  Ford's
attention, and he squatted down to unfasten it, thrashing away at
the clouds of freezing gas that threatened to envelope him.

A thought occurred to Arthur.

"If these are just coffins," he  said,  "Why  are  they  kept  so
cold?"

"Or, indeed, why are they kept anyway,"  said  Ford  tugging  the
hatchway  open.  The  gas poured down through it. "Why in fact is
anyone going to all the  trouble  and  expense  of  carting  five
thousand dead bodies through space?"

"Ten thousand," said Arthur,  pointing  at  the  archway  through
which the next chamber was dimly visible.

Ford stuck his head down through the floor hatchway. He looked up
again.

"Fifteen thousand," he said, "there's another lot down there."

"Fifteen million," said a voice.

"That's a lot," said Ford, "A lot a lot."

"Turn around slowly," barked the voice, "and put your  hands  up.
Any other move and I blast you into tiny tiny bits."

"Hello?" said Ford, turning round slowly, putting  his  hands  up
and not making any other move.

"Why," said Arthur Dent, "isn't anyone ever pleased to see us?"

Standing silhouetted  in  the  doorway  through  which  they  had
entered the vault was the man who wasn't pleased to see them. His
displeasure was communicated  partly  by  the  barking  hectoring
quality  of his voice and partly by the viciousness with which he
waved a long silver Kill-O-Zap gun at them. The designer  of  the
gun had clearly not been instructed to beat about the bush. "Make
it evil," he'd been told. "Make it totally clear  that  this  gun
has  a right end and a wrong end. Make it totally clear to anyone
standing at the wrong end that things are going badly  for  them.
If  that  means  sticking  all  sort  of  spikes  and  prongs and
blackened bits all over it then so be it. This is not a  gun  for
hanging  over the fireplace or sticking in the umbrella stand, it
is a gun for going out and making people miserable with."

Ford and Arthur looked at the gun unhappily.

The man with the gun moved from the door and circled round  them.
As  he  came  into  the  light  they could see his black and gold
uniform on which the buttons were so highly  polished  that  they
shone  with  an  intensity  that  would  have made an approaching
motorist flash his lights in annoyance.

He gestured at the door.

"Out," he said. People who can supply that amount of  fire  power
don't  need  to  supply  verbs as well. Ford and Arthur went out,
closely followed by the wrong end of the Kill-O-Zap gun  and  the
buttons.

Turning into  the  corridor  they  were  jostled  by  twenty-four
oncoming  joggers,  now  showered  and changed, who swept on past
them into the vault. Arthur turned to watch them in confusion.

"Move!" screamed their captor.

Arthur moved.

Ford shrugged and moved.

In the vault the joggers went  to  twenty-four  empty  sarcophagi
along  the  side  wall,  opened  them,  climbed in, and fell into
twenty-four dreamless sleeps.




"Er, captain ..."

"Yes, Number One?"

"Just heard a sort of report thingy from Number Two."

"Oh, dear."

High up in the bridge of the ship, the Captain  stared  out  into
the infinite reaches of space with mild irritation. From where he
reclined beneath a wide domed bubble  he  could  see  before  and
above  them  the  vast  panorama of stars through which they were
moving - a panorama that had thinned  out  noticably  during  the
course  of  the  voyage.  Turning and looking backwards, over the
vast two-mile bulk of the ship he could see the far  denser  mass
of  stars  behind  them which seemed to form almost a solid band.
This was the view through the Galactic  centre  from  which  they
were  travelling,  and indeed had been travelling for years, at a
speed that he couldn't quite remember at the moment, but he  knew
it  was  terribly fast. It was something approaching the speed of
something or other, or was it three times the speed of  something
else? Jolly impressive anyway. He peered into the bright distance
behind the ship, looking for something. He  did  this  every  few
minutes or so, but never found what he was looking for. He didn't
let it worry him  though.  The  scientist  chaps  had  been  very
insistent  that  everything  was  going  to  be perfectly alright
providing nobody panicked and everybody got on and did their  bit
in an orderly fashion.

He wasn't panicking. As far as he was  concerned  everything  was
going  splendidly.  He dabbed at his shoulder with a large frothy
sponge. It crept back into his mind that he  was  feeling  mildly
irritated  about something. Now what was all that about? A slight
cough alerted him to the fact that the ship's first  officer  was
still standing nearby.

Nice chap, Number One. Not of the very  brightest,  had  the  odd
spot  of  difficulty  doing  up  his  shoe  laces, but jolly good
officer material for all that. The Captain wasn't a man to kick a
chap  when  he  was  bending over trying to do up his shoe laces,
however long it took him.  Not  like  that  ghastly  Number  Two,
strutting  about  all  over  the  place,  polishing  his buttons,
issuing reports  every  hour:  "Ship's  still  moving,  Captain."
"Still   on   course,   Captain."   "Oxygen  levels  still  being
maintained, Captain." "Give it a miss," was the  Captain's  vote.
Ah  yes,  that  was  the  thing  that had been irritating him. He
peered down at Number One.

"Yes, Captain, he was shouting something or  other  about  having
found some prisoners ..."

The Captain thought about this. Seemed pretty  unlikely  to  him,
but he wasn't one to stand in his officers' way.

"Well, perhaps that'll keep him happy for a bit," he said,  "He's
always wanted some."

Ford Prefect and  Arthur  Dent  trudged  onwards  up  the  ship's
apparently  endless  corridors.  Number  Two  marched behind them
barking the occasional order about not making any false moves  or
trying  any  funny  stuff.  They seemed to have passed at least a
mile of continuous brown hessian wall weave. Finally they reached
a large steel door which slid open when Number Two shouted at it.

They entered.

To the eyes of Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent, the most  remarkable
thing  about  the  ship's  bridge was not the fifty foot diameter
hemispherical dome  which  covered  it,  and  through  which  the
dazzling  display of stars shone down on them: to people who have
eaten at the Restaurant at the End of the Universe, such  wonders
are  commonplace. Nor was it the bewildering array of instruments
that crowded the long circumferential wall around them. To Arthur
this  was  exactly what spaceships were traditionally supposed to
look like, and  to  Ford  it  looked  thoroughly  antiquated:  it
confirmed his suspicions that Disaster Area's stuntship had taken
them back at least a million, if not two  million,  years  before
their own time.

No, the thing that really caught them off balance was the bath.

The bath stood on a six foot pedestal of rough  hewn  blue  water
crystal  and  was of a baroque monstrosity not often seen outside
the Maximegalon Museum  of  Diseased  Imaginings.  An  intestinal
jumble  of  plumbing had been picked out in gold leaf rather than
decently buried at midnight in an unmarked grave;  the  taps  and
shower attachment would have made a gargoyle jump.

As the dominant centrepiece of a starship bridge it was  terribly
wrong,  and it was with the embittered air of a man who knew this
that Number Two approached it.

"Captain, sir!" he shouted through clenched teeth -  a  difficult
trick but he'd had years during which to perfect it.

A large genial face and a genial foam covered arm popped up above
the rim of the monstrous bath.

"Ah, hello, Number  Two,"  said  the  Captain,  waving  a  cheery
sponge, "having a nice day?"

Number Two snapped even further to attention than he already was.

"I have brought you the prisoners I located in freezer bay seven,
sir!" he yapped.

Ford and Arthur coughed in confusion.

"Er ... hello," they said.

The Captain beamed at them. So Number Two had really  found  some
prisoners. Well, good for him, thought the Captain, nice to see a
chap doing what he's best at.

"Oh, hello there," he said to them, "Excuse me  not  getting  up,
having  a quick bath. Well, jynnan tonnyx all round then. Look in
the fridge Number one."

"Certainly sir."

It is a curious fact, and one to which no  one  knows  quite  how
much  importance  to attach, that something like 85% of all known
worlds in the Galaxy, be they primitive or highly advanced,  have
invented  a  drink  called  jynnan  tonnyx, or gee-N'N-T'N-ix, or
jinond-o-nicks, or any one of a thousand or  more  variations  on
the  same phonetic theme. The drinks themselves are not the same,
and vary between the Sivolvian "chinanto/mnigs" which is ordinary
water   server  at  slightly  above  room  temperature,  and  the
Gagrakackan "tzjin-anthony-ks" which  kills  cows  at  a  hundred
paces;  and  in  fact  the one common factor between all of them,
beyond the fact that the names sound the same, is that they  were
all  invented  and named before the worlds concerned made contact
with any other worlds.

What can be made of this fact? It exists in total  isolation.  As
far  as  any  theory of structural linguistics is concerned it is
right  off  the  graph,  and  yet  it  persists.  Old  structural
linguists  get  very  angry when young structural linguists go on
about it. Young structural linguists get deeply excited about  it
and  stay  up late at night convinced that they are very close to
something  of  profound  importance,  and  end  up  becoming  old
structural  linguists  before their time, getting very angry with
the young ones. Structural linguistics is a bitterly divided  and
unhappy discipline, and a large number of its practitioners spend
too many nights drowning their problems in Ouisghian Zodahs.

Number Two stood before  the  Captain's  bathtub  trembling  with
frustration.

"Don't you want to interrogate the prisoners sir?" he squealed.

The Captain peered at him in bemusement.

"Why on Golgafrincham should I want to do that?" he asked.

"To get information out of them, sir! To find out why  they  came
here!"

"Oh no, no, no," said the Captain, "I expect they just dropped in
for a quick jynnan tonnyx, don't you?"

"But sir, they're my prisoners! I must interrogate them!"

The Captain looked at them doubtfully.

"Oh all right," he said, "if you must. Ask them what they want to
drink."

A hard cold gleam came into Number Two's eyes. He advanced slowly
on Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent.

"All right, you scum," he growled, "you  vermin  ..."  He  jabbed
Ford with the Kill-O-Zap gun.

"Steady on, Number Two," admonished the Captain gently.

"What do you want to drink!!!" Number Two screamed.

"Well the jynnan tonnyx sounds very nice to me," said Ford, "What
about you Arthur?"

Arthur blinked.

"What? Oh, er, yes," he said.

"With ice or without?" bellowed Number Two.

"Oh, with please," said Ford.

"Lemon??!!"

"Yes please," said Ford, "and do you have  any  of  those  little
biscuits? You know, the cheesy ones?"

"I'm asking  the  questions!!!!"  howled  Number  Two,  his  body
quaking with apoplectic fury.

"Er, Number Two ..." said the Captain softly.

"Sir?!"
"Push off, would you, there's a good chap. I'm trying to  have  a
relaxing bath."

Number Two's eyes narrowed and  became  what  are  known  in  the
Shouting  and  Killing  People  trade  as  cold  slits,  the idea
presumably being to give your opponent the  impression  that  you
have  lost  your  glasses or are having difficulty keeping awake.
Why this is frightening is an, as yet, unresolved problem.

He advanced on the captain, his (Number Two's) mouth a thin  hard
line.  Again,  tricky  to know why this is understood as fighting
behaviour. If, whilst wandering through the jungle of Traal,  you
were  suddenly to come upon the fabled Ravenous Bugblatter Beast,
you would have reason to be grateful if its mouth was a thin hard
line  rather  than,  as it usually is, a gaping mass of slavering
fangs.

"May I remind you sir," hissed Number Two at the  Captain,  "that
you have now been in that bath for over three years?!" This final
shot delivered, Number Two spun on his heel and stalked off to  a
corner to practise darting eye movements in the mirror.

The Captain squirmed in his bath. He gave  Ford  Prefect  a  lame
smile.

"Well you need to relax a lot in a job like mine," he said.

Ford slowly lowered his hands. It provoked  no  reaction.  Arthur
lowered his.

Treading very slowly and carefully, Ford moved over to  the  bath
pedestal. He patted it.

"Nice," he lied.

He wondered if it was safe to grin. Very slowly and carefully, he
grinned. It was safe.

"Er ..." he said to the Captain.

"Yes?" said the Captain.

"I wonder," said Ford, "could I ask you actually what your job is
in fact?"

A hand tapped him on the shoulder. He span round.

It was the first officer.

"Your drinks," he said.

"Ah, thank you," said Ford.  He  and  Arthur  took  their  jynnan
tonnyx.  Arthur  sipped  his,  and  was  surprised to discover it
tasted very like a whisky and soda.

"I mean, I couldn't help noticing," said Ford, also taking a sip,
"the bodies. In the hold."

"Bodies?" said the Captain in surprise.
Ford paused and thought  to  himself.  Never  take  anything  for
granted,  he  thought.  Could it be that the Captain doesn't know
he's got fifteen million dead bodies on his ship?

The Captain was nodding cheerfully at him. He also appeared to be
playing with a rubber duck.

Ford looked around. Number Two was staring at him in the  mirror,
but  only  for  an instant: his eyes were constantly on the move.
The first officer was just standing there holding the drinks tray
and smiling benignly.

"Bodies?" said the Captain again.

Ford licked his lips.

"Yes," he said, "All those dead telephone sanitizers and  account
executives, you know, down in the hold."

The Captain stared at him. Suddenly he threw back  his  head  and
laughed.

"Oh they're not dead," he said, "Good Lord no, no they're frozen.
They're going to be revived."

Ford did something he very rarely did. He blinked.

Arthur seemed to come out of a trance.

"You mean you've got a hold  full  of  frozen  hairdressers?"  he
said.

"Oh yes," said the  Captain,  "Millions  of  them.  Hairdressers,
tired  TV  producers,  insurance  salesmen,  personnel  officers,
security  guards,   public   relations   executives,   management
consultants,  you  name  them.  We're  going  to colonize another
planet."

Ford wobbled very slightly.

"Exciting isn't it?" said the Captain.

"What, with that lot?" said Arthur.

"Ah, now don't misunderstand me," said the Captain,  "we're  just
one  of  the  ships  in the Ark Fleet. We're the `B' Ark you see.
Sorry, could I just ask you to run a bit more hot water for me?"

Arthur obliged, and a cascade of pink frothy water swirled around
the bath. The Captain let out a sigh of pleasure.

"Thank you so much my dear fellow. Do  help  yourselves  to  more
drinks of course."

Ford tossed down his  drink,  took  the  bottle  from  the  first
officer's tray and refilled his glass to the top.

"What," he said, "is a `B' Ark?"
"This is," said the Captain, and swished the foamy  water  around
joyfully with the duck.

"Yes," said Ford, "but ..."

"Well what happened you see was," said the Captain, "our  planet,
the world from which we have come, was, so to speak, doomed."

"Doomed?"

"Oh yes. So what everyone  thought  was,  let's  pack  the  whole
population  into  some  giant  spaceships  and  go  and settle on
another planet."

Having told this much of  his  story,  he  settled  back  with  a
satisfied grunt.

"You mean a less doomed one?" promoted Arthur.

"What did you say dear fellow?"

"A less doomed planet. You were going to settle on."

"Are going to settle on, yes. So it was decided  to  build  three
ships,  you  see, three Arks in Space, and ... I'm not boring you
am I?"

"No, no," said Ford firmly, "it's fascinating."

"You know it's  delightful,"  reflected  the  Captain,  "to  have
someone else to talk to for a change."

Number Two's eyes darted feverishly about the room again and then
settled  back  on  the  mirror,  like  a  pair  of  flies briefly
distracted from their favourite prey of months old meat.

"Trouble with a long journey like this," continued  the  Captain,
"is  that  you  end up just talking to yourself a lot, which gets
terribly boring because half the time you know what you're  going
to say next."

"Only half the time?" asked Arthur in surprise.

The Captain thought for a moment.

"Yes, about half I'd say. Anyway - where's the soap?"  He  fished
around and found it.

"Yes, so anyway," he resumed, "the idea was that into  the  first
ship,  the  `A'  ship,  would  go  all the brilliant leaders, the
scientists, the great artists, you know, all the  achievers;  and
into  the third, or `C' ship, would go all the people who did the
actual work, who made things and did things, and  then  into  the
`B'  ship - that's us - would go everyone else, the middlemen you
see."

He smiled happily at them.
"And we were sent off first," he concluded, and hummed  a  little
bathing tune.

The little bathing tune, which had been composed for him  by  one
of  his world's most exciting and prolific jingle writer (who was
currently asleep in  hold  thirty-six  some  nine  hundred  yards
behind  them)  covered  what would otherwise have been an awkward
moment of silence.  Ford  and  Arthur  shuffled  their  feet  and
furiously avoided each other's eyes.

"Er ..." said Arthur after a moment, "what exactly  was  it  that
was wrong with your planet then?"

"Oh, it was doomed, as I said," said the Captain, "Apparently  it
was  going  to  crash  into the sun or something. Or maybe it was
that the moon was going to crash into us. Something of the  kind.
Absolutely terrifying prospect whatever it was."

"Oh," said the first officer suddenly, "I thought it was that the
planet was going to be invaded by a gigantic swarm of twelve foot
piranha bees. Wasn't that it?"

Number Two span around, eyes ablaze with a cold hard  light  that
only comes with the amount of practise he was prepared to put in.

"That's not what I was told!" he hissed, "My  commanding  officer
told  me  that  the entire planet was in imminent danger of being
eaten by an enormous mutant star goat!"

"Oh really ..." said Ford Prefect.

"Yes! A monstrous creature from the pit  of  hell  with  scything
teeth  ten  thousand  miles  long, breath that would boil oceans,
claws that could tear continents from  their  roots,  a  thousand
eyes  that  burned  like  the sun, slavering jaws a million miles
across, a monster such as you have never ... never ... ever ..."

"And they made sure they  sent  you  lot  off  first  did  they?"
inquired Arthur.

"Oh yes," said the Captain, "well everyone said,  very  nicely  I
thought,  that it was very important for morale to feel that they
would be arriving on a planet where they could be sure of a  good
haircut and where the phones were clean."

"Oh yes," agreed Ford, "I can see that would be  very  important.
And the other ships, er ... they followed on after you did they?"

For a moment the Captain did not answer. He twisted round in  his
bath  and  gazed backwards over the huge bulk of the ship towards
the bright galactic centre. He squinted  into  the  inconceivable
distance.

"Ah. Well it's funny you should say that," he  said  and  allowed
himself a slight frown at Ford Prefect, "because curiously enough
we haven't heard a peep out of them since we left five years  ago
... but they must be behind us somewhere."

He peered off into the distance again.
Ford peered with him and gave a thoughtful frown.

"Unless of course," he said softly, "they were eaten by the  goat
..."

"Ah yes ..." said the Captain with a  slight  hesitancy  creeping
into  his  voice,  "the  goat ..." His eyes passed over the solid
shapes of the instruments and computers that  lined  the  bridge.
They  winked  away innocently at him. He stared out at the stars,
but none of them said a word. He glanced at his first and  second
officers,  but  they  seemed  lost  in  their  own thoughts for a
moment. He glanced at Ford Prefect who  raised  his  eyebrows  at
him.

"It's a funny thing you know," said the Captain at last, "but now
that I actually come to tell the story to someone else ... I mean
does it strike you as odd Number Two?"

"Errrrrrrrrrrr ..." said Number Two.

"Well," said Ford, "I can see that you've got  a  lot  of  things
you're going to talk about, so, thanks for the drinks, and if you
could sort of drop us off at the nearest convenient planet ..."

"Ah, well that's a little difficult you see," said  the  Captain,
"because   our  trajectory  thingy  was  preset  before  we  left
Golgafrincham, I think partly because  I'm  not  very  good  with
figures ..."

"You mean we're stuck here on this ship?" exclaimed Ford suddenly
losing patience with the whole charade, "When are you meant to be
reaching this planet you're meant to be colonizing?"

"Oh, we're nearly there I think," said the Captain,  "any  second
now.  It's  probably time I was getting out of this bath in fact.
Oh, I don't know though, why stop just when I'm enjoying it?"

"So we're actually going to land in a minute?"

"Well not so much land, in fact, not actually land  as  such,  no
... er ..."

"What are you talking about?" said Ford sharply.

"Well," said the Captain,  picking  his  way  through  the  words
carefully,  "I  think as far as I can remember we were programmed
to crash on it."

"Crash?" shouted Ford and Arthur.

"Er, yes," said the Captain, "yes, it's all part of  the  plan  I
think.  There  was  a  terribly  good reason for it which I can't
quite remember at the moment. It was something  to  with  ...  er
..."

Ford exploded.

"You're a load of useless bloody loonies!" he shouted.
"Ah yes, that was it," beamed the Captain, "that was the reason."




The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy has this to say  about  the
planet  of  Golgafrincham:  It  is  a  planet with an ancient and
mysterious history, rich in legend, red, and  occasionally  green
with  the  blood  of those who sought in times gone by to conquer
her; a land of parched and barren landscapes, of sweet and sultry
air  heady  with  the  scent of the perfumed springs that trickle
over its hot and dusty rocks  and  nourish  the  dark  and  musty
lichens   beneath;  a  land  of  fevered  brows  and  intoxicated
imaginings, particularly amongst those who taste the  lichens;  a
land  also  of  cool  and  shaded thoughts amongst those who have
learnt to forswear the lichens and find a tree to sit beneath;  a
land  also of steel and blood and heroism; a land of the body and
of the spirit. This was its history.

And  in  all  this  ancient  and  mysterious  history,  the  most
mysterious  figures  of all were without doubt those of the Great
Circling Poets of Arium. These Circling Poets  used  to  live  in
remote  mountain  passes  where  they would lie in wait for small
bands of unwary travellers, circle round them, and throw rocks at
them.

And when the travellers cried out, saying why didn't they go away
and  get  on  with writing some poems instead of pestering people
with all this rock-throwing business, they would  suddenly  stop,
and  then  break  into  one  of the seven hundred and ninety-four
great  Song  Cycles  of  Vassilian.  These  songs  were  all   of
extraordinary beauty, and even more extraordinary length, and all
fell into exactly the same pattern.

The first part of each song would tell how there once went  forth
from the City of Vassilian a party of five sage princes with four
horses. The princes, who are of course  brave,  noble  and  wise,
travel widely in distant lands, fought giant ogres, pursue exotic
philosophies, take tea  with  weird  gods  and  rescue  beautiful
monsters  from ravening princesses before finally announcing that
they have achieved enlightenment and that  their  wanderings  are
therefore accomplished.

The second, and much longer, part of each song would then tell of
all  their bickerings about which one of them is going to have to
walk back.

All this lay in the planet's remote  past.  It  was,  however,  a
descendant  of  one  of  these  eccentric  poets who invented the
spurious tales of impending doom  which  enabled  the  people  of
Golgafrincham  to  rid  themselves  of an entire useless third of
their population. The other two-thirds stayed firmly at home  and
lived  full,  rich  and  happy lives until they were all suddenly
wiped  out  by  a  virulent  disease  contracted  from  a   dirty
telephone.




That night the ship crash-landed on to an  utterly  insignificant
little  green-blue planet which circled a small unregarded yellow
sun in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end  of  the
Western spiral arm of the Galaxy.

In  the  hours  preceding  the  crash  Ford  Prefect  had  fought
furiously  but  in  vain  to unlock the controls of the ship from
their pre-ordained flight path. It had quickly become apparent to
him  that  the  ship  had  been  programmed to convey its payload
safely, in uncomfortably, to its new home but to  cripple  itself
beyond repair in the process.

Its  screaming,  blazing  descent  through  the  atmosphere   had
stripped away most of its superstructure and outer shielding, and
its final inglorious bellyflop into a murky swamp  had  left  its
crew  only  a  few  hours  of darkness during which to revive and
offload its deep-frozen and unwanted cargo for the ship began  to
settle  almost  at once, slowly upending its gigantic bulk in the
stagnant slime. Once or twice during the  night  it  was  starkly
silhouetted  against the sky as burning meteors - the detritus of
its descent - flashed across the sky.

In the grey pre-dawn light it let out an obscene  roaring  gurgle
and sank for ever into the stinking depths.

When the sun came up that morning it shed its thin  watery  light
over  a  vast  area  heaving  with  wailing  hairdressers, public
relations executives, opinion pollsters and the rest, all clawing
their way desperately to dry land.

A less strong minded sun would probably have gone  straight  back
down again, but it continued to climb its way through the sky and
after a while the influence of its warming  rays  began  to  have
some restoring effect on the feebly struggling creatures.

Countless numbers had, unsurprisingly, been lost to the swamp  in
the  night, and millions more had been sucked down with the ship,
but those that survived still numbered hundreds of thousands  and
as  the  day  wore  on  they  crawled  out  over  the surrounding
countryside, each looking for a few square feet of  solid  ground
on which to collapse and recover from their nightmare ordeal.

Two figures moved further afield.

>From a nearby hillside Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent  watched  the
horror of which they could not feel a part.

"Filthy dirty trick to pull," muttered Arthur.

Ford scraped a stick along the ground and shrugged.

"An imaginative solution to a problem I'd have thought," he said.

"Why can't people just  learn  to  live  together  in  peace  and
harmony?" said Arthur.

Ford gave a loud, very hollow laugh.
"Forty-two!" he said with a malicious grin,  "No,  doesn't  work.
Never mind."

Arthur looked at him as if he'd gone mad and, seeing  nothing  to
indicate  the  contrary,  realized  that  it  would  be perfectly
reasonable to assume that this had in fact happened.

"What do you think will happen to them  all?"  he  said  after  a
while.

"In an infinite Universe anything can happen," said  Ford,  "Even
survival. Strange but true."

A curious look came  into  his  eyes  as  they  passed  over  the
landscape  and  then  settles  again on the scene of misery below
them.

"I think they'll manage for a while," he said.

Arthur looked up sharply.

"Why do you say that?" he said.

Ford shrugged.

"Just a hunch," he said, and refused to be drawn to  any  further
questions.

"Look," he said suddenly.

Arthur followed his pointing finger. Down amongst  the  sprawling
masses  a figure was moving - or perhaps lurching would be a more
accurate description. He appeared to be carrying something on his
shoulder.  As he lurched from prostrate form to prostrate form he
seemed to wave whatever the something was at them  in  a  drunken
fashion. After a while he gave up the struggle and collapsed in a
heap.

Arthur had no idea what this was meant to mean to him.

"Movie camera," said Ford. "Recording the historic movement."

"Well, I don't know about you," said Ford again after  a  moment,
"but I'm off."

He sat a while in silence.

After a while this seemed to require comment.

"Er, when you say you're off, what do  you  mean  exactly?"  said
Arthur.

"Good question," said Ford, "I'm getting total silence."

Looking over his shoulder Arthur saw that he was  twiddling  with
knobs  on  a small box. Ford had already introduced this box as a
Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic, but Arthur had merely nodded absently  and
not  pursued  the  matter. In his mind the Universe still divided
into two parts - the Earth, and everything else. The Earth having
been  demolished  to  make  way for a new hyperspace bypass meant
that this view of things was a little lopsided, but Arthur tended
to cling to that lopsidedness as being his last remaining contact
with his home. Sub-Etha  Sens-O-Matics  belonged  firmly  in  the
"everything else" category.

"Not a sausage," said Ford, shaking the thing.

Sausage, thought Arthur to himself as he gazed listlessly at  the
primitive  world about him, what I wouldn't give for a good Earth
sausage.

"Would you believe," said Ford in exasperation, "that  there  are
no transmissions of any kind within light years of this benighted
tip? Are you listening to me?"

"What?" said Arthur.

"We're in trouble," said Ford.

"Oh," said Arthur. This sounded like month-old news to him.

"Until we pick up anything on  this  machine,"  said  Ford,  "our
chances of getting off this planet are zero. It may be some freak
standing wave effect in the planet's magnetic field  -  in  which
case  we  just  travel  round  and  round  till  we  find a clear
reception area. Coming?"

He picked up his gear and strode off.

Arthur looked down the hill. The man with the  movie  camera  had
struggled  back  up  to  his feet just in time to film one of his
colleagues collapsing.

Arthur picked a blade of grass and strode off after Ford.




"I trust you had a pleasant meal?" said Zarniwoop to  Zaphod  and
Trillian  as  they  rematerialized  on the bridge of the starship
Heart of Gold and lay panting on the floor.

Zaphod opened some eyes and glowered at him.

"You," he spat. He staggered to his feet and stomped off to  find
a chair to slump into. He found one and slumped into it.

"I  have  programmed  the   computer   with   the   Improbability
Coordinates  pertinent  to our journey," said Zarniwoop, "we will
arrive there very shortly. Meanwhile, why  don't  you  relax  and
prepare yourself for the meeting?"

Zaphod said nothing. He got up again and marched over to a  small
cabinet from which he pulled a bottle of old Janx spirit. He took
a long pull at it.

"And when this is all done," said Zaphod  savagely,  "it's  done,
alright?  I'm  free  to go and do what the hell I like and lie on
beaches and stuff?"

"It depends what transpires from the meeting," said Zarniwoop.

"Zaphod, who is this man?" said Trillian shakily, wobbling to her
feet, "What's he doing here? Why's he on our ship?"

"He's a very stupid man," said Zaphod, "who wants to meet the man
who rules the Universe."

"Ah," said Trillian taking the bottle  from  Zaphod  and  helping
herself, "a social climber."




The major problem - one of the  major  problems,  for  there  are
several - one of the many major problems with governing people is
that of whom you get to do it; or rather of who  manages  to  get
people to let them do it to them.

To summarize: it is a well known fact, that those people who most
want to rule people are, ipso facto, those least suited to do it.
To summarize the  summary:  anyone  who  is  capable  of  getting
themselves  made  President should on no account be allowed to do
the job. To summarize the summary of the summary:  people  are  a
problem.

And so this is the situation we find: a  succession  of  Galactic
Presidents  who  so  much  enjoy  the fun and palaver of being in
power that they very rarely notice that they're not.

And somewhere in the shadows behind them - who?

Who can possibly rule if no one who wants to do it can be allowed
to?




On a small obscure world somewhere in the middle  of  nowhere  in
particular - nowhere, that is, that could ever be found, since it
is protected by a vast field of unprobability to which  only  six
men in this galaxy have a key - it was raining.

It was bucketing down, and had been for hours. It beat the top of
the sea into a mist, it pounded the trees, it churned and slopped
a stretch of scrubby land near the sea into a mudbath.

The rain pelted and danced on the corrugated  iron  roof  of  the
small  shack  that  stood  in the middle of this patch of scrubby
land. It obliterated the small rough pathway that  led  from  the
shack  down  to  the seashore and smashed apart the neat piles of
interesting shells which had been placed there.

The noise of the rain on the roof  of  the  shack  was  deafening
within,  but  went  largely  unnoticed  by  its  occupant,  whose
attention was otherwise engaged.
He was a tall shambling man with rough straw-coloured  hair  that
was damp from the leaking roof. His clothes were shabby, his back
was hunched, and his eyes, though open, seemed closed.

In his shack was an old  beaten-up  armchair,  an  old  scratched
table,  an old mattress, some cushions and a stove that was small
but warm.

There was also an old and slightly weatherbeaten  cat,  and  this
was  currently  the  focus  of  the  man's attention. He bent his
shambling form over it.

"Pussy, pussy, pussy," he said, "coochicoochicoochicoo ...  pussy
want his fish? Nice piece of fish ... pussy want it?"

The  cat  seemed  undecided  on  the  matter.  It  pawed   rather
condescendingly at the piece of fish the man was holding out, and
then got distracted by a piece of dust on the floor.

"Pussy not eat his fish, pussy get thin and waste away, I think,"
said the man. Doubt crept into his voice.

"I imagine this is what will happen," he said,  "but  how  can  I
tell?"

He proffered the fish again.

"Pussy think," he said, "eat fish or not eat fish. I think it  is
better if I don't get involved." He sighed.

"I think fish is nice, but then I think that rain is wet, so  who
am I to judge?"

He left the fish on the floor for the cat,  and  retired  to  his
seat.

"Ah, I seem to see you eating it," he said at last,  as  the  cat
exhausted  the  entertainment  possibilities of the speck of dust
and pounced on to the fish.

"I like it when I see you eat the fish," said the  man,  "because
in my mind you will waste away if you don't."

He picked up from the table a piece of paper and the  stub  of  a
pencil.  He  held one in one hand and the other in the other, and
experimented with the different ways of bringing  them  together.
He tried holding the pencil under the paper, then over the paper,
then next to the paper. He tried wrapping  the  paper  round  the
pencil, he tried rubbing the stubby end of the pencil against the
paper and then he tried rubbing  the  sharp  end  of  the  pencil
against  the paper. It made a mark, and he was delighted with the
discovery, as he was every day. He picked  up  another  piece  of
paper  from  the table. This had a crossword on it. He studied it
briefly and filled in a couple of clues before losing interest.

He tried sitting on one of his hands and  was  intrigued  by  the
feel of the bones of his hip.

"Fish come from far away," he said, "or so  I'm  told.  Or  so  I
imagine  I'm  told. When the men come, or when in my mind the men
come in their six black ships, do they come  in  your  mind  too?
What do you see pussy?"

He looked at the cat, which was more concerned with  getting  the
fish  down  as  rapidly  as  possible  than  it  was  with  these
speculations.

"And when I hear their questions, do you hear questions? What  do
their  voices mean to you? Perhaps you just think they're singing
songs to you." He reflected on this, and  saw  the  flaw  in  the
supposition.

"Perhaps they are singing songs to you," he  said,  "and  I  just
think they're asking me questions."

He paused again. Sometimes he would pause for days, just  to  see
what it was like.

"Do you think they came today?" he said, "I do.  There's  mud  on
the  floor,  cigarettes  and whisky on the table, fish on a plate
for you and a memory  of  them  in  my  mind.  Hardly  conclusive
evidence  I  know,  but  then all evidence is circumstantial. And
look what else they've left me."

He reached over to the table and pulled some things off it.

"Crosswords, dictionaries, and a calculator."

He played with the calculator for an hour, whilst the cat went to
sleep  and  the rain outside continued to pour. Eventually he put
the calculator aside.

"I think I must be right in thinking they ask me  questions,"  he
said,  "To  come  all that way and leave all these things for the
privilege  of  singing  songs  to  you  would  be  very   strange
behaviour. Or so it seems to me. Who can tell, who can tell."

>From the table he picked up a cigarette and lit it with  a  spill
from the stove. He inhaled deeply and sat back.

"I think I saw another ship in the sky today," he said  at  last.
"A  big  white one. I've never seen a big white one, just the six
black ones. And the six green ones. And the others who  say  they
come  from  so far away. Never a big white one. Perhaps six small
black ones can look like one big  white  one  at  certain  times.
Perhaps  I  would  like  a  glass of whisky. Yes, that seems more
likely."

He stood up and found a glass that was lying on the floor by  the
mattress.  He  poured in a measure from his whisky bottle. He sat
again.

"Perhaps some other people are coming to see me," he said.

A hundred yards away, pelted by  the  torrential  rain,  lay  the
Heart of Gold.

Its hatchway opened, and three  figures  emerged,  huddling  into
themselves to keep the rain off their faces.

"In there?" shouted Trillian above the noise of the rain.

"Yes," said Zarniwoop.

"That shack?"

"Yes."

"Weird," said Zaphod.

"But it's in the middle of nowhere," said Trillian, "we must have
come  to  the  wrong  place.  You  can't rule the Universe from a
shack."

They hurried through the pouring rain, and arrived, wet  through,
at the door. They knocked. They shivered.

The door opened.

"Hello?" said the man.

"Ah, excuse me," said Zarniwoop, "I have reason to believe ..."

"Do you rule the Universe?" said Zaphod.

The man smiled at him.

"I try not to," he said, "Are you wet?"

Zaphod looked at him in astonishment.

"Wet?" he cried, "Doesn't it look as if we're wet?"

"That's how it looks to me," said the  man,  "but  how  you  feel
about  it  might  be  an altogether different matter. If you feel
warmth makes you dry, you'd better come in."

They went in.

They  looked  around  the  tiny  shack,  Zarniwoop  with   slight
distaste, Trillian with interest, Zaphod with delight.

"Hey, er ..." said Zaphod, "what's your name?"

The man looked at them doubtfully.

"I don't know. Why, do you think I should have one? It seems very
odd to give a bundle of vague sensory perceptions a name."

He invited Trillian to sit in the chair. He sat on  the  edge  of
the  chair, Zarniwoop leaned stiffly against the table and Zaphod
lay on the mattress.

"Wowee!" said Zaphod, "the seat of power!" He tickled the cat.

"Listen," said Zarniwoop, "I must ask you some questions."
"Alright," said the man kindly, "you can sing to my  cat  if  you
like."

"Would he like that?" asked Zaphod.

"You'd better ask him," said the man.

"Does he talk?" said Zaphod.

"I have no memory of him talking," said the man, "but I  am  very
unreliable."

Zarniwoop pulled some notes out of a pocket.

"Now," he said, "you do rule the Universe, do you?"

"How can I tell?" said the man.

Zarniwoop ticked off a note on the paper.

"How long have you been doing this?"

"Ah," said the man, "this is a question about the past is it?"

Zarniwoop looked at him in puzzlement. This wasn't  exactly  what
he had been expecting.

"Yes," he said.

"How can I tell," said the man, "that the past  isn't  a  fiction
designed  to  account  for  the  discrepancy between my immediate
physical sensations and my state of mind?"

Zarniwoop stared at him. The steam began to rise from his  sodden
clothes.

"So you answer all questions like this?" he said.

The man answered quickly.

"I say what it occurs to me to say when I think I hear people say
things. More I cannot say."

Zaphod laughed happily.

"I'll drink to that," he said and pulled out the bottle  of  Janx
spirit.  He  leaped  up and handed the bottle to the ruler of the
Universe, who took it with pleasure.

"Good on you, great ruler," he said, "tell it like it is."

"No, listen to me," said Zarniwoop, "people come to you do  they?
In ships ..."

"I think so," said the man. He handed the bottle to Trillian.

"And they ask you," said Zarniwoop, "to take decisions for  them?
About  people's lives, about worlds, about economies, about wars,
about everything going on out there in the Universe?"
"Out there?" said the man, "out where?"

"Out there!" said Zarniwoop pointing at the door.

"How can you tell there's  anything  out  there,"  said  the  man
politely, "the door's closed."

The rain continued to pound the roof. Inside  the  shack  it  was
warm.

"But  you  know  there's  a  whole  Universe  out  there!"  cried
Zarniwoop.  "You can't dodge your responsibilities by saying they
don't exist!"

The ruler of  the  Universe  thought  for  a  long  while  whilst
Zarniwoop quivered with anger.

"You're very sure of your facts," he said at  last,  "I  couldn't
trust  the thinking of a man who takes the Universe - if there is
one - for granted."

Zarniwoop still quivered, but was silent.

"I only decide about my Universe," continued the man quietly. "My
Universe is my eyes and my ears. Anything else is hearsay."

"But don't you believe in anything?"

The man shrugged and picked up his cat.

"I don't understand what you mean," he said.

"You don't understand that what you decide in this shack of yours
affects  the  lives  and fates of millions of people? This is all
monstrously wrong!"

"I don't know. I've never met all these people you speak of.  And
neither,  I  suspect, have you. They only exist in words we hear.
It is folly to say you know what is happening  to  other  people.
Only  they  know, if they exist. They have their own Universes of
their own eyes and ears."

Trillian said:

"I think I'm just popping outside for a moment."

She left and walked into the rain.

"Do you believe other people exist?" insisted Zarniwoop.

"I have no opinion. How can I say?"

"I'd better see what's up with Trillian," said Zaphod and slipped
out.

Outside, he said to her:

"I think the Universe is in pretty good hands, yeah?"
"Very good," said Trillian. They walked off into the rain.

Inside, Zarniwoop continued.

"But don't you understand that people live or die on your word?"

The ruler of the Universe waited for as long as he could. When he
heard  the faint sound of the ship's engines starting he spoke to
cover it.

"It's nothing to do with me," he said, "I am  not  involved  with
people. The Lord knows I am not a cruel man."

"Ah!" barked Zarniwoop, "you  say  `The  Lord'.  You  believe  in
something!"

"My cat," said the man benignly, picking it up and  stroking  it,
"I call him The Lord. I am kind to him."

"Alright," said Zarniwoop, pressing home his point, "How  do  you
know  he  exists?  How  do  you  know he knows you to be kind, or
enjoys what he thinks of as your kindness?"

"I don't," said the man with a smile, "I have no idea. It  merely
pleases  me  to  behave  in a certain way to what appears to be a
cat. Do you behave any differently? Please, I think I am tired."

Zarniwoop heaved a thoroughly dissatisfied sigh and looked about.

"Where are the other two?" he said suddenly.

"What other two?" said the ruler of the Universe,  settling  back
into his chair and refilling his whisky glass.

"Beeblebrox and the girl! The two who were here!"

"I remember no one. The past is a fiction to account for ..."

"Stuff it," snapped Zarniwoop and ran out into  the  rain.  There
was  no  ship.  The rain continued to churn the mud. There was no
sign to show where the ship had been. He hollered into the  rain.
He turned and ran back to the shack and found it locked.

The ruler of the Universe dozed lightly in  his  chair.  After  a
while  he  played  with  the  pencil  and the paper again and was
delighted when he discovered how to make a mark with the  one  on
the  other.  Various noises continued outside, but he didn't know
whether they were real or not. He then talked to his table for  a
week to see how it would react.




The stars came out that night, dazzling in their  brilliance  and
clarity.  Ford and Arthur had walked more miles than they had any
means of judging and finally stopped to rest. The night was  cool
and  balmy,  the  air  pure,  the  Sub-Etha  Sens.O.Matic totally
silent.
A wonderful stillness hung over the world, a magical  calm  which
combined with the soft fragrances of the woods, the quiet chatter
of insects and the brilliant light of the stars to  soothe  their
jangled spirits. Even Ford Prefect, who had seen more worlds than
he could count on a long afternoon, was moved to wonder  if  this
was  the  most  beautiful he had ever seen. All that day they had
passed through rolling green hills and  valleys,  richly  covered
with grasses, wild scented flowers and tall thickly leaved trees,
the sun had warmed them, light breezes had kept  them  cool,  and
Ford  Prefect  had  checked his Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic at less and
less  frequent  intervals,  and  had  exhibited  less  and   less
annoyance  at its continued silence. He was beginning to think he
liked it here.

Cool though the night air was they slept soundly and  comfortably
in  the  open  and awoke a few hours later with the light dewfall
feeling refreshed but hungry. Ford had stuffed some  small  rolls
into  his  satchel  at  Milliways  and they breakfasted off those
before moving on.

So far they had wandered purely at random, but  now  they  struck
out  firmly eastwards, feeling that if they were going to explore
this world they should have some clear idea  of  where  they  had
come from and where they were going.

Shortly before noon they had  their  first  indication  that  the
world  they  had  landed  on  was  not an uninhabited one: a half
glimpsed face amongst the trees, watching them.  It  vanished  at
the  moment  they  both saw it, but the image they were both left
with was of a humanoid creature, curious  to  see  them  but  not
alarmed.  Half an hour later they glimpsed another such face, and
ten minutes after that another.

A minute later they stumbled into a  wide  clearing  and  stopped
short.

Before them in the middle of the clearing stood a group of  about
two  dozen  men and women. They stood still and quiet facing Ford
and Arthur. Around some of the women huddled some small  children
and  behind  the  group was a ramshackle array of small dwellings
made of mud and branches.

Ford and Arthur held their breath.

The tallest of the men stood a little over five feet  high,  they
all  stooped  forward  slightly,  had  longish  arms  and  lowish
foreheads, and clear bright eyes with which they stared  intently
at the strangers.

Seeing that they carried no weapons  and  made  no  move  towards
them, Ford and Arthur relaxed slightly.

For a while the two groups simply stared at each  other,  neither
side   making  any  move.  The  natives  seemed  puzzled  by  the
intruders, and whilst they showed no sign of aggression they were
quite clearly not issuing any invitations.

For a full two minutes nothing continued to happen.
After two minutes Ford decided it was time something happened.

"Hello," he said.

The women drew their children slightly closer to them.

The men made hardly any discernible  move  and  yet  their  whole
disposition  made it clear that the greeting was not welcome - it
was not resented in any great degree, it was just not welcome.

One of the men, who had been standing  slightly  forward  of  the
rest of the group and who might therefore have been their leader,
stepped forward. His face was quiet and calm, almost serene.

"Ugghhhuuggghhhrrrr uh uh ruh uurgh," he said quietly.

This caught Arthur by surprise. He had grown so used to receiving
an  instantaneous  and  unconscious  translation of everything he
heard via the Babel Fish lodged in his ear that he had ceased  to
be  aware  of it, and he was only reminded of its presence now by
the fact that it didn't seem to  be  working.  Vague  shadows  of
meaning  had  flickered  at  the  back of his mind, but there was
nothing he could get any firm grasp on. He guessed, correctly  as
it happens, that these people had as yet evolved no more than the
barest rudiments  of  language,  and  that  the  Babel  Fish  was
therefore  powerless  to  help.  He  glanced  at  Ford,  who  was
infinitely more experienced in these matters.

"I think," said Ford out of the corner of his mouth, "he's asking
us if we'd mind walking on round the edge of the village."

A moment later, a gesture from the man-creature seemed to confirm
this.

"Ruurgggghhhh  urrgggh;  urgh  urgh  (uh  ruh)   rruurruuh   ug,"
continued the man-creature.

"The general gist," said Ford, "as far as I can make out, is that
we are welcome to continue our journey in any way we like, but if
we would walk round his village rather than through it  it  would
make them all very happy."

"So what do we do?"

"I think we make them happy," said Ford.

Slowly and watchfully they walked  round  the  perimeter  of  the
clearing.  This  seemed to go down very well with the natives who
bowed to them very slightly and then went about their business.

Ford and Arthur continued their journey through the wood.  A  few
hundred  yards  past the clearing they suddenly came upon a small
pile  of  fruit  lying  in  their  path  -  berries  that  looked
remarkably  like  raspberries  and blackberries, and pulpy, green
skinned fruit that looked remarkably like pears.

So far they had steered clear of the fruit and berries  they  had
seen, though the trees and bushed were laden with them.
"Look at it this way," Ford Prefect had said, "fruit and  berries
on  strange  planets  either  make  you  live  or  make  you die.
Therefore the point at which to start toying with  them  is  when
you're  going  to  die if you don't. That way you stay ahead. The
secret of healthy hitch-hiking is to eat junk food."

They looked at the pile that lay in their path with suspicion. It
looked so good it made them almost dizzy with hunger.

"Look at it this way," said Ford, "er ..."

"Yes?" said Arthur.

"I'm trying to think of a way of looking at it which means we get
to eat it," said Ford.

The leaf-dappled sun gleamed on the  pulp  skins  of  the  things
which looked like pears. The things which looked like raspberries
and strawberries were fatter and riper than any Arthur  had  ever
seen, even in ice cream commercials.

"Why don't we eat them and think about it afterwards?" he said.

"Maybe that's what they want us to do."

"Alright, look at it this way ..."

"Sounds good so far."

"It's there for us to eat. Either it's good or it's  bad,  either
they  want  to  feed us or to poison us. If it's poisonous and we
don't eat it they'll just attack us some other way. If  we  don't
eat, we lose out either way."

"I like the way you're thinking," said Ford, "Now eat one."

Hesitantly, Arthur picked up one of those things that looked like
pears.

"I always thought that about the  Garden  of  Eden  story,"  said
Ford.

"Eh?"

"Garden of Eden. Tree. Apple. That bit, remember?"

"Yes of course I do."

"Your God person puts an apple tree in the middle of a garden and
says do what you like guys, oh, but don't eat the apple. Surprise
surprise, they eat it  and  he  leaps  out  from  behind  a  bush
shouting  `Gotcha'.  It wouldn't have made any difference if they
hadn't eaten it."

"Why not?"

"Because if you're dealing with somebody  who  has  the  sort  of
mentality  which  likes  leaving hats on the pavement with bricks
under them you know perfectly well they won't  give  up.  They'll
get you in the end."

"What are you talking about?"

"Never mind, eat the fruit."

"You know, this place almost looks like the Garden of Eden."

"Eat the fruit."

"Sounds quite like it too."

Arthur took a bite from the thing which looked like a pear.

"It's a pear," he said.

A few moments later, when they had eaten the  lot,  Ford  Prefect
turned round and called out.

"Thank you. Thank you very much," he called, "you're very kind."

They went on their way.

For the next fifty miles of their journey eastward they  kept  on
finding  the  occasional  gift  of fruit lying in their path, and
though they once or twice had a quick glimpse of  a  native  man-
creature amongst the trees, they never again made direct contact.
They decided they rather liked a race of people who made it clear
that they were grateful simply to be left alone.

The fruit and berries stopped after fifty miles, because that was
where the sea started.

Having no pressing calls on their time  they  built  a  raft  and
crossed  the  sea. It was reasonably calm, only about sixty miles
wide and they had a reasonably pleasant crossing,  landing  in  a
country that was at least as beautiful as the one they had left.

Life was, in short, ridiculously easy and for a  while  at  least
they  were  able  to  cope  with  the problems of aimlessness and
isolation by deciding  to  ignore  them.  When  the  craving  for
company  became  too  great they would know where to find it, but
for the moment they were happy to feel  that  the  Golgafrinchans
were hundreds of miles behind them.

Nevertheless, Ford Prefect began to use his Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic
more often again. Only once did he pick up a signal, but that was
so faint and from such enormous distance that  it  depressed  him
more than the silence that had otherwise continued unbroken.

On a whim they turned northwards. After weeks of travelling  they
came to another sea, built another raft and crossed it. This time
it was harder going,  the  climate  was  getting  colder.  Arthur
suspected  a streak of masochism in Ford Prefect - the increasing
difficulty of the journey seemed to give him a sense  of  purpose
that was otherwise lacking. He strode onwards relentlessly.

Their journey northwards  brought  them  into  steep  mountainous
terrain  of breathtaking sweep and beauty. The vast, jagged, snow
covered peaks ravished their senses. The cold began to bite  into
their bones.

They wrapped themselves in  animal  skins  and  furs  which  Ford
Prefect  acquired by a technique he once learned from a couple of
ex-Pralite monks running a Mind-Surfing resort in  the  Hills  of
Hunian.

The galaxy is littered with ex-Pralite monks, all  on  the  make,
because the mental control techniques the Order have evolved as a
form of devotional discipline are,  frankly,  sensational  -  and
extraordinary  numbers  of  monks leave the Order just after they
have finished their devotional training and just before they take
their final vows to stay locked in small metal boxes for the rest
of their lives.

Ford's technique seemed to consist mainly of standing still for a
while and smiling.

After a while an animal - a deer perhaps - would appear from  out
of  the  trees  and  watch him cautiously. Ford would continue to
smile at it, his eyes would soften and shine, and he  would  seem
to radiate a deep and universal love, a love which reached out to
embrace all of creation. A wonderful quietness would  descend  on
the  surrounding countryside, peaceful and serene, emanating from
this transfigured man. Slowly the deer would  approach,  step  by
step,  until  it  was almost nuzzling him, whereupon Ford Prefect
would reach out to it and break its neck.

"Pheromone control," he said it was, "you just have to  know  how
to generate the right smell."




A few days after landing in this  mountainous  land  they  hit  a
coastline  which swept diagonally before them from the south-west
to the north-east,  a  coastline  of  monumental  grandeur:  deep
majestic ravines, soaring pinnacles of ice - fjords.

For two further days they scrambled and climbed  over  the  rocks
and glaciers, awe-struck with beauty.

"Arthur!" yelled Ford suddenly.

It was the afternoon of the second day. Arthur was sitting  on  a
high rock watching the thundering sea smashing itself against the
craggy promontories.

"Arthur!" yelled Ford again.

Arthur looked to  where  Ford's  voice  had  come  from,  carried
faintly in the wind.

Ford had gone to examine a glacier, and Arthur  found  him  there
crouching  by  the  solid  wall  of  blue  ice. He was tense with
excitement - his eyes darted up to meet Arthur's.
"Look," he said, "look!"

Arthur looked. He saw the solid wall of blue ice.

"Yes," he said, "it's a glacier. I've already seen it."

"No," said Ford, "you've looked  at  it,  you  haven't  seen  it.
Look!"

Ford was pointing deep into the heart of the ice.

Arthur peered - he saw nothing but vague shadows.

"Move back from it," insisted Ford, "look again."

Arthur moved back and looked again.

"No," he said, and shrugged. "What am I supposed  to  be  looking
for?"

And suddenly he saw it.

"You see it?"

He saw it.

His mouth started to speak, but his brain decided it  hadn't  got
anything  to say yet and shut it again. His brain then started to
contend with the problem of what  his  eyes  told  it  they  were
looking  at,  but  in  doing so relinquished control of the mouth
which promptly fell open again. Once more gathering up  the  jaw,
his  brain  lost  control  of  his  left hand which then wandered
around in an aimless fashion. For a second or so the brain  tried
to  catch  the  left  hand  without  letting  go of the mouth and
simultaneously tried to think about what was buried in  the  ice,
which  is probably why the legs went and Arthur dropped restfully
to the ground.

The thing that had been causing  all  this  neural  upset  was  a
network  of shadows in the ice, about eighteen inches beneath the
surface. Looked at it from the right angle they resolved into the
solid  shapes of letters from an alien alphabet, each about three
feet  high;  and  for  those,  like  Arthur,  who  couldn't  read
Magrathean  there  was  above  the  letters the outline of a face
hanging in the ice.

It was an old face, thin  and  distinguished,  careworn  but  not
unkind.

It was the face of the man who had won an award for designing the
coastline they now knew themselves to be standing on.




A thin whine filled the air. It whirled and  howled  through  the
trees  upsetting  the squirrels. A few birds flew off in disgust.
The noise danced and skittered round the clearing. It whooped, it
rasped, it generally offended.
The  Captain,  however,  regarded  the  lone  bagpiper  with   an
indulgent  eye. Little could disturb his equanimity; indeed, once
he had got over  the  loss  of  his  gorgeous  bath  during  that
unpleasantness  in the swamp all those months ago he had begun to
find his new life remarkably congenial. A hollow had been scooped
out  of  a  large rock which stood in the middle of the clearing,
and in this he would bask daily whilst attendants  sloshed  water
over  him.  Not particularly warm water, it must be said, as they
hadn't yet worked out a way of heating it. Never mind, that would
come,  and  in  the  meantime  search  parties  were scouring the
countryside far and wide for a hot spring, preferably  one  in  a
nice leafy glade, and if it was near a soap mine - perfection. To
those who said that they had  a  feeling  soap  wasn't  found  in
mines,  the Captain had ventured to suggest that perhaps that was
because no one had looked hard enough, and this  possibility  had
been reluctantly acknowledged.

No, life was very pleasant, and the greatest thing about  it  was
that  when the hot spring was found, complete with leafy glade en
suite,  and  when  in  the  fullness  of  time   the   cry   came
reverberating  across  the  hills  that  the  soap  mine had been
located and was producing five hundred cakes a day  it  would  be
more pleasant still. It was very important to have things to look
forward to.

Wail, wail, screech, wail, howl, honk, squeak went the  bagpipes,
increasing  the  Captain's  already  considerable pleasure at the
thought that any moment now they might stop. That  was  something
he looked forward to as well.

What else was pleasant, he asked himself? Well, so  many  things:
the  red  and gold of the trees, now that autumn was approaching;
the peaceful chatter of scissors a few feet from his bath where a
couple  of  hairdressers were exercising their skills on a dozing
art director and his assistant; the sunlight gleaming off the six
shiny  telephones  lined up along the edge of his rock-hewn bath.
The only thing nicer than a phone that didn't ring all  the  time
(or  indeed  at all) was six phones that didn't ring all the time
(or indeed at all).

Nicest of all was the happy murmur of all the hundreds of  people
slowly  assembling  in  the  clearing  around  him  to  watch the
afternoon committee meeting.

The Captain punched his rubber duck playfully on  the  beak.  The
afternoon committee meetings were his favourite.

Other eyes watched the assembling crowds. High in a tree  on  the
edge  of the clearing squatted Ford Prefect, lately returned from
foreign climes. After his six  month  journey  he  was  lean  and
healthy,  his  eyes  gleamed,  he  wore a reindeer-skin coat; his
beard was as thick and his face  as  bronzed  as  a  country-rock
singer's.

He and Arthur Dent  had  been  watching  the  Golgafrinchans  for
almost a week now, and Ford had decided to stir things up a bit.

The clearing was now full. Hundreds  of  men  and  women  lounged
around,  chatting,  eating  fruit,  playing  cards  and generally
having a fairly relaxed time of it. Their track  suits  were  now
all  dirty  and  even  torn, but they all had immaculately styled
hair. Ford was puzzled to see that many of them had stuffed their
track  suits  full of leaves and wondered if this was meant to be
some form of insulation against the coming  winter.  Ford's  eyes
narrowed. They couldn't be interested in botany of a sudden could
they?

In the middle of these  speculations  the  Captain's  voice  rose
above the hubbub.

"Alright," he said, "I'd like to call this meeting to  some  sort
of  order  if  that's  at  all  possible.  Is  that  alright with
everybody?" He smiled genially. "In a  minute.  When  you're  all
ready."

The talking gradually died away and  the  clearing  fell  silent,
except  for  the  bagpiper  who  seemed  to  be  in some wild and
uninhabitable musical world of his own. A few  of  those  in  his
immediate  vicinity  threw  some  leaves to him. If there was any
reason for this then it escaped Ford Prefect for the moment.

A small group of people had clustered round the Captain  and  one
of  them  was clearly beginning to speak. He did this by standing
up, clearing his throat and then gazing off into the distance  as
if  to  signify  to  the  crowd  that  he would be with them in a
minute.

The crowd of course were riveted and all  turned  their  eyes  on
him.

A moment of silence followed, which Ford judged to be  the  right
dramatic moment to make his entry. The man turned to speak.

Ford dropped down out of the tree.

"Hi there," he said.

The crowd swivelled round.

"Ah my dear fellow," called out the Captain, "Got any matches  on
you? Or a lighter? Anything like that?"

"No," said Ford, sounding a little deflated. It wasn't what  he'd
prepared.  He  decided  he'd  better  be a little stronger on the
subject.

"No I haven't," he continued, "No matches. Instead  I  bring  you
news ..."

"Pity," said the Captain, "We've all run out you see. Haven't had
a hot bath in weeks."

Ford refused to be headed off.

"I bring you news," he said, "of a discovery that might  interest
you."
"Is it on the agenda?" snapped the man whom Ford had interrupted.

Ford smiled a broad country-rock singer smile.

"Now, come on," he said.

"Well I'm sorry," said  the  man  huffily,  "but  speaking  as  a
management  consultant  of many years' standing, I must insist on
the importance of observing the committee structure."

Ford looked round the crowd.

"He's mad you know," he said, "this is a prehistoric planet."

"Address the chair!" snapped the management consultant.

"There isn't chair," explained Ford, "there's only a rock."

The management consultant decided that  testiness  was  what  the
situation now called for.

"Well, call it a chair," he said testily.

"Why not call it a rock?" asked Ford.

"You  obviously  have  no  conception,"   said   the   management
consultant,  not  abandoning  testiness  in  favour  of  good old
fashioned hauteur, "of modern business methods."

"And you have no conception of where you are," said Ford.

A girl with a strident voice leapt to her feet and used it.

"Shut up, you two," she said, "I want to table a motion."

"You mean boulder a motion," tittered a hairdresser.

"Order, order!" yapped the management consultant.

"Alright," said Ford, "let's see how you are doing."  He  plonked
himself  down  on  the  ground  to see how long he could keep his
temper.

The Captain made a sort of conciliatory harrumphing noise.

"I would like to call to order," he said  pleasantly,  "the  five
hundred  and  seventy-third meeting of the colonization committee
of Fintlewoodlewix ..."

Ten seconds, thought Ford as he leapt to his feet again.

"This is futile," he exclaimed, "five hundred  and  seventy-three
committee meetings and you haven't even discovered fire yet!"

"If you would care," said the girl with the strident  voice,  "to
examine the agenda sheet ..."

"Agenda rock," trilled the hairdresser happily.
"Thank you, I've made that point," muttered Ford.

"... you ... will ... see ..." continued the girl  firmly,  "that
we  are  having  a report from the hairdressers' Fire Development
Sub-Committee today."

"Oh ... ah -" said the hairdresser with a sheepish look which  is
recognized  the  whole  Galaxy  over  as  meaning  "Er, will next
Tuesday do?"

"Alright," said Ford, rounding on him, "what have you done?  What
are you going to do? What are your thoughts on fire development?"

"Well I don't know," said the hairdresser, "All they gave me  was
a couple of sticks ..."

"So what have you done with them?"

Nervously, the hairdresser fished  in  his  track  suit  top  and
handed over the fruits of his labour to Ford.

Ford held them up for all to see.

"Curling tongs," he said.

The crowd applauded.

"Never mind," said Ford, "Rome wasn't burnt in a day."

The crowd hadn't the faintest idea what he was talking about, but
they loved it nevertheless. They applauded.

"Well, you're obviously being totally naive of course," said  the
girl,  "When  you've  been  in marketing as long as I have you'll
know that before any new product can be developed it  has  to  be
properly  researched. We've got to find out what people want from
fire, how they relate to it, what sort of image it has for them."

The crowd were tense. They  were  expecting  something  wonderful
from Ford.

"Stick it up your nose," he said.

"Which is precisely the sort of thing we need to know,"  insisted
the girl, "Do people want fire that can be applied nasally?"

"Do you?" Ford asked the crowd.

"Yes!" shouted some.

"No!" shouted others happily.

They didn't know, they just thought it was great.

"And the wheel," said the Captain, "What about this wheel thingy?
It sounds a terribly interesting project."

"Ah," said the marketing  girl,  "Well,  we're  having  a  little
difficulty there."
"Difficulty?" exclaimed Ford,  "Difficulty?  What  do  you  mean,
difficulty?  It's  the  single  simplest  machine  in  the entire
Universe!"

The marketing girl soured him with a look.

"Alright, Mr Wiseguy," she said, "you're so clever, you  tell  us
what colour it should have."

The crowd went wild. One up to the home team, they thought.  Ford
shrugged his shoulders and sat down again.

"Almighty Zarquon," he said, "have none of you done anything?"

As if in answer to his question there was  a  sudden  clamour  of
noise  from  the  entrance  to  the  clearing. The crowd couldn't
believe the  amount  of  entertainment  they  were  getting  this
afternoon: in marched a squad of about a dozen men dressed in the
remnants of their  Golgafrincham  3rd  Regiment  dress  uniforms.
About  half  of  them still carried Kill-O-Zap guns, the rest now
carried spears which they struck together as they  marched.  They
looked  bronzed,  healthy,  and utterly exhausted and bedraggled.
They clattered to a halt and banged to  attention.  One  of  them
fell over and never moved again.

"Captain, sir!" cried Number Two - for  he  was  their  leader  -
"Permission to report sir!"

"Yes, alright Number Two, welcome back and all that. Find any hot
springs?" said the Captain despondently.

"No sir!"

"Thought you wouldn't."

Number Two strode through the crowd and presented arms before the
bath.

"We have discovered another continent!"

"When was this?"

"It lies across the sea ..." said Number Two, narrowing his  eyes
significantly, "to the east!"

"Ah."

Number Two turned to face the crowd. He raised his gun above  his
head. This is going to be great, thought the crowd.

"We have declared war on it!"

Wild abandoned cheering broke out in all corners of the  clearing
- this was beyond all expectation.

"Wait a minute," shouted Ford Prefect, "wait a minute!"

He leapt to his feet and demanded silence. After a while  he  got
it,  or  at  least  the  best silence he could hope for under the
circumstances: the  circumstances  were  that  the  bagpiper  was
spontaneously composing a national anthem.

"Do we have to have the piper?" demanded Ford.

"Oh yes," said the Captain, "we've given him a grant."

Ford considered opening this  idea  up  for  debate  but  quickly
decided that that way madness lay. Instead he slung a well judged
rock at the piper and turned to face Number Two.

"War?" he said.

"Yes!" Number Two gazed contemptuously at Ford Prefect.

"On the next continent?"

"Yes! Total warfare! The war to end all wars!"

"But there's no one even living there yet!"

Ah, interesting, thought the crowd, nice point.

Number Two's gaze hovered undisturbed. In this respect  his  eyes
were  like  a  couple  of mosquitos that hover purposefully three
inches from your nose and refuse to be deflected by arm thrashes,
fly swats or rolled newspapers.

"I know that," he said, "but there will be one day!  So  we  have
left an open-ended ultimatum."

"What?"

"And blown up a few military installations."

The Captain leaned forward out of his bath.

"Military installations Number Two?" he said.

For a moment the eyes wavered.

"Yes sir, well  potential  military  installations.  Alright  ...
trees."

The moment of uncertainty passed - his eyes flickered like  whips
over his audience.

"And," he roared, "we interrogated a gazelle!"

He flipped his Kill-O-Zap gun smartly under his arm  and  marched
off  through  the pandemonium that had now erupted throughout the
ecstatic crowd. A few steps was all  he  managed  before  he  was
caught up and carried shoulder high for a lap of honour round the
clearing.

Ford sat and idly tapped a couple of stones together.

"So what else have you done?" he inquired after the  celebrations
had died down.

"We have started a culture," said the marketing girl.

"Oh yes?" said Ford.

"Yes. One of our film producers is already making  a  fascinating
documentary about the indigenous cavemen of the area."

"They're not cavemen."

"They look like cavemen."

"Do they live in caves?"

"Well ..."

"They live in huts."

"Perhaps they're having their caves redecorated,"  called  out  a
wag from the crowd.

Ford rounded on him angrily.

"Very funny," he said, "but have you noticed that  they're  dying
out?"

On their journey back,  Ford  and  Arthur  had  come  across  two
derelict  villages  and  the bodies of many natives in the woods,
where they had crept away to die. Those  that  still  lived  were
stricken  and listless, as if they were suffering some disease of
the spirit rather than the body. They moved sluggishly  and  with
an infinite sadness. Their future had been taken away from them.

"Dying out!" repeated Ford. "Do you know what that means?"

"Er ... we shouldn't sell them any life  insurance?"  called  out
the wag again.

Ford ignored him, and appealed to the whole crowd.

"Can you try and understand," he  said,  "that  it's  just  since
we've arrived that they've started dying out!"

"In fact that comes over terribly well in this  film,"  said  the
marketing  girl,  "and just gives it that poignant twist which is
the hallmark of the really great documentary. The producer's very
committed."

"He should be," muttered Ford.

"I gather," said the girl, turning to address the Captain who was
beginning  to nod off, "that he wants to make one about you next,
Captain."

"Oh really?" he said, coming to with  a  start,  "that's  awfully
nice."

"He's got a very strong angle on it,  you  know,  the  burden  of
responsibility, the loneliness of command ..."

The Captain hummed and hahed about this for a moment.

"Well, I wouldn't overstress  that  angle,  you  know,"  he  said
finally, "one's never alone with a rubber duck."

He held the duck aloft and it got an appreciative round from  the
crowd.

All the while, the Management  Consultant  had  been  sitting  in
stony silence, his finger tips pressed to his temples to indicate
that he was waiting and would wait all day if it was necessary.

At this point he decided he would not wait all day after all,  he
would merely pretend that the last half hour hadn't happened.

He rose to his feet.

"If," he said tersely, "we could for a  moment  move  on  to  the
subject of fiscal policy ..."

"Fiscal policy!" whooped Ford Prefect, "Fiscal policy!"

The Management Consultant gave him a look that  only  a  lungfish
could have copied.

"Fiscal policy ..." he repeated, "that is what I said."

"How can you have money," demanded Ford, "if none of you actually
produces anything? It doesn't grow on trees you know."

"If you would allow me to continue ..."

Ford nodded dejectedly.

"Thank you. Since we decided a few weeks ago to adopt the leaf as
legal tender, we have, of course, all become immensely rich."

Ford  stared  in  disbelief  at  the  crowd  who  were  murmuring
appreciatively  at this and greedily fingering the wads of leaves
with which their track suits were stuffed.

"But we have also," continued  the  Management  Consultant,  "run
into  a  small  inflation problem on account of the high level of
leaf availability, which means that, I gather, the current  going
rate has something like three deciduous forests buying one ship's
peanut."

Murmurs of alarm came from the crowd. The  Management  Consultant
waved them down.

"So in  order  to  obviate  this  problem,"  he  continued,  "and
effectively  revaluate  the  leaf,  we  are  about to embark on a
massive defoliation campaign, and  ...  er,  burn  down  all  the
forests.  I  think  you'll all agree that's a sensible move under
the circumstances."

The crowd seemed a little uncertain about this for  a  second  or
two  until  someone  pointed out how much this would increase the
value of the leaves in  their  pockets  whereupon  they  let  out
whoops  of  delight and gave the Management Consultant a standing
ovation.  The  accountants  amongst  them  looked  forward  to  a
profitable Autumn.

"You're all mad," explained Ford Prefect.

"You're absolutely barmy," he suggested.

"You're a bunch of raving nutters," he opined.

The tide of opinion started to turn against him. What had started
out  as  excellent  entertainment  had  now, in the crowd's view,
deteriorated into mere abuse, and since this  abuse  was  in  the
main directed at them they wearied of it.

Sensing this shift in the wind, the marketing girl turned on him.

"Is it perhaps in order," she demanded, "to inquire  what  you've
been  doing  all these months then? You and that other interloper
have been missing since the day we arrived."

"We've been on a journey," said Ford, "We went to  try  and  find
out something about this planet."

"Oh," said the girl archly, "doesn't  sound  very  productive  to
me."

"No? Well have I got news for you, my love.  We  have  discovered
this planet's future."

Ford waited for this statement to have its effect. It didn't have
any. They didn't know what he was talking about.

He continued.

"It doesn't matter a pair of fetid dingo's kidneys what  you  all
choose  to  do  from  now on. Burn down the forests, anything, it
won't make a scrap of difference. Your future history has already
happened.  Two million years you've got and that's it. At the end
of that time your race will be dead, gone and  good  riddance  to
you. Remember that, two million years!"

The crowd muttered to itself in annoyance. People as rich as they
had  suddenly  become shouldn't be obliged to listen to this sort
of gibberish. Perhaps they could tip the fellow a leaf or two and
he would go away.

They didn't need to bother. Ford was already stalking out of  the
clearing,  pausing  only  to shake his head at Number Two who was
already firing his Kill-O-Zap gun into some neighbouring trees.

He turned back once.

"Two million years!" he said and laughed.

"Well," said the Captain with a soothing smile, "still time for a
few  more baths. Could someone pass me the sponge? I just dropped
it over the side."




A mile or so away through the wood, Arthur Dent  was  too  busily
engrossed with what he was doing to hear Ford Prefect approach.

What he was doing was rather curious, and this is what it was: on
a  wide  flat  piece  of rock he had scratched out the shape of a
large square, subdivided into one hundred and sixty-nine  smaller
squares, thirteen to a side.

Furthermore he had collected together a pile of smallish flattish
stones  and  scratched  the shape of a letter on to each. Sitting
morosely round the rock were a  couple  of  the  surviving  local
native  men  whom Arthur Dent was trying to introduce the curious
concept embodied in these stones.

So far they had not done well. They had attempted to eat some  of
them,  bury  others  and  throw the rest of them away. Arthur had
finally encouraged one of them to lay a couple of stones  on  the
board  he  had  scratched  out, which was not even as far as he'd
managed to get the day before. Along with the rapid deterioration
in   the  morale  of  these  creatures,  there  seemed  to  be  a
corresponding deterioration in their actual intelligence.

In an attempt to egg them along,  Arthur  set  out  a  number  of
letters  on  the  board  himself, and then tried to encourage the
natives to add some more themselves.

It was not going well.

Ford watched quietly from beside a nearby tree.

"No," said Arthur to one of the natives  who  had  just  shuffled
some  of  the  letters  round  in  a fit of abysmal dejection, "Q
scores ten you see, and it's on a triple word score, so ... look,
I've  explained the rules to you ... no no, look please, put down
that  jawbone  ...  alright,  we'll  start  again.  And  try   to
concentrate this time."

Ford leaned his elbow against the tree and his hand  against  his
head.

"What are you doing, Arthur?" he asked quietly.

Arthur looked up with a start. He suddenly had a feeling that all
this  might  look  slightly  foolish. All he knew was that it had
worked like a dream on him when he was a chid.  But  things  were
different then, or rather would be.

"I'm trying to teach the cavemen to play Scrabble," he said.

"They're not cavemen," said Ford.

"They look like cavemen."

Ford let it pass.
"I see," he said.

"It's uphill work," said Arthur wearily, "the only word they know
is grunt and they can't spell it."

He sighed and sat back.

"What's that supposed to achieve?" asked Ford.

"We've got to encourage them to evolve! To develop!" Arthur burst
out  angrily.  He  hoped  that  the weary sigh and then the anger
might do  something  to  counteract  the  overriding  feeling  of
foolishness  from which he was currently suffering. It didn't. He
jumped to his feet.

"Can you imagine what a world would be like descended from  those
... cretins we arrived with?" he said.

"Imagine?" said Ford, rising his  eyebrows.  "We  don't  have  to
imagine. We've seen it."

"But ..." Arthur waved his arms about hopelessly.

"We've seen it," said Ford, "there's no escape."

Arthur kicked at a stone.

"Did you tell them what we've discovered?" he asked.

"Hmmmm?" said Ford, not really concentrating.

"Norway,"  said  Arthur,  "Slartibartfast's  signature   in   the
glacier. Did you tell them?"

"What's the point?" said Ford, "What would it mean to them?"

"Mean?" said Arthur, "Mean?  You  know  perfectly  well  what  it
means. It means that this planet is the Earth! It's my home! It's
where I was born!"

"Was?" said Ford.

"Alright, will be."

"Yes, in two million years' time. Why don't you tell  them  that?
Go  and  say to them, `Excuse me, I'd just like to point out that
in two million years' time I will be born just a few  miles  from
here.'  See  what  they  say. They'll chase you up a tree and set
fire to it."

Arthur absorbed this unhappily.

"Face it," said Ford, "those zeebs over there are your ancestors,
not these poor creatures here."

He went  over  to  where  the  apemen  creatures  were  rummaging
listlessly with the stone letters. He shook his head.
"Put the Scrabble away, Arthur," he  said,  "it  won't  save  the
human  race,  because this lot aren't going to be the human race.
The human race is currently sitting round a  rock  on  the  other
side of this hill making documentaries about themselves."

Arthur winced.

"There must be something we can do," he said. A terrible sense of
desolation  thrilled  through his body that he should be here, on
the Earth, the Earth which had lost its future  in  a  horrifying
arbitrary  catastrophe  and which now seemed set to lose its past
as well.

"No," said Ford, "there's nothing we can do. This doesn't  change
the  history  of  the  Earth, you see, this is the history of the
Earth. Like it or leave it, the Golgafrinchans are the people you
are  descended  from.  in two million years they get destroyed by
the Vogons. History is  never  altered  you  see,  it  just  fits
together like a jigsaw. Funny old thing, life, isn't it?"

He picked up the letter Q and hurled it into a distant pivet bush
where it hit a young rabbit. The rabbit hurtled off in terror and
didn't stop till it was set upon and eaten by a fox which  choked
on  one  of  its  bones  and  died  on the bank of a stream which
subsequently washed it away.

During the following weeks Ford Prefect swallowed his  pride  and
struck  up  a  relationship  with a girl who had been a personnel
officer on Golgafrincham, and he  was  terribly  upset  when  she
suddenly  passed  away  as a result of drinking water from a pool
that had been polluted by the body of a dead fox. The only  moral
it  is  possible to draw from this story is that one should never
throw the letter Q into a pivet bush, but unfortunately there are
times when it is unavoidable.

Like most of the really crucial things in  life,  this  chain  of
events  was completely invisible to Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent.
They were looking sadly at one of the  natives  morosely  pushing
the other letters around.

"Poor bloody caveman," said Arthur.

"They're not ..."

"What?"

"Oh never mind."

The wretched creature let out a pathetic howling noise and banged
on the rock.

"It's all been a bit of waste of time for them, hasn't it?"  said
Arthur.

"Uh uh urghhhhh," muttered the native  and  banged  on  the  rock
again.

"They've been outevolved by telephone sanitizers."
"Urgh, gr gr, gruh!" insisted the native, continuing to  bang  on
the rock.

"Why does he keep banging on the rock?" said Arthur.

"I think he probably wants you to Scrabble with him again,"  said
Ford, "he's pointing at the letters."

"Probably spelt crzjgrdwldiwdc again, poor  bastard.  I  keep  on
telling him there's only one g in crzjgrdwldiwdc."

The native banged on the rock again.

They looked over his shoulder.

Their eyes popped.

There amongst the jumble of letters were eight that had been laid
out in a clear straight line.

They spelt two words.

The words were these:

"Forty-Two."

"Grrrurgh guh guh," explained the native. He  swept  the  letters
angrily  away  and  went and mooched under a nearby tree with his
colleague.

Ford and Arthur stared at him. Then they stared at each other.

"Did that say what I thought it said?" they  both  said  to  each
other.

"Yes," they both said.

"Forty-two," said Arthur.

"Forty-two," said Ford.

Arthur ran over to the two natives.

"What are you trying to tell us?" he shouted. "What's it supposed
to mean?"

One of them rolled over on the ground, kicked his legs up in  the
air, rolled over again and went to sleep.

The other bounded up the tree and threw horse chestnuts  at  Ford
Prefect.  Whatever  it was they had to say, they had already said
it.

"You know what this means," said Ford.

"Not entirely."

"Forty-two is the number Deep Thought gave as being the  Ultimate
Answer."
"Yes."

And the Earth is the computer Deep Thought designed and built  to
calculate the Question to the Ultimate Answer."

"So we are led to believe."

"And organic life was part of the computer matrix."

"If you say so."

"I do say so. That means that these natives, these apemen are  an
integral  part  of  the  computer  program,  and  that we and the
Golgafrinchans are not."

"But the  cavemen  are  dying  out  and  the  Golgafrinchans  are
obviously set to replace them."

"Exactly. So do you see what this means?"

"What?"

"Cock up," said Ford Prefect.

Arthur looked around him.

"This planet is having a pretty bloody time of it," he said.

Ford puzzled for a moment.

"Still, something must have come out of it,"  he  said  at  last,
"because  Marvin  said  he could see the Question printed in your
brain wave patterns."

"But ..."

"Probably the wrong one, or a distortion of  the  right  one.  It
might  give us a clue though if we could find it. I don't see how
we can though."

They moped about for a bit. Arthur sat on the ground and  started
pulling  up bits of grass, but found that it wasn't an occupation
he could get deeply  engrossed  in.  It  wasn't  grass  he  could
believe  in, the trees seemed pointless, the rolling hills seemed
to be rolling to nowhere and the future seemed just a  tunnel  to
be crawled through.

Ford fiddled with his Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic. It  was  silent.  He
sighed and put it away.

Arthur picked up one of the  letter  stones  from  his  home-made
Scrabble  set.  It  was a T. He sighed and out it down again. The
letter he put down next to it was an I. That spelt IT. He  tossed
another couple of letters next to them They were an S and an H as
it  happened.  By  a  curious  coincidence  the  resulting   word
perfectly  expressed the way Arthur was feeling about things just
then.  He  stared  at  it  for  a  moment.  He  hadn't  done   it
deliberately,  it  was just a random chance. His brain got slowly
into first gear.

"Ford," he said suddenly, "look, if that Question is  printed  in
my  brain  wave  patterns  but I'm not consciously aware of it it
must be somewhere in my unconscious."

"Yes, I suppose so."

"There might be  a  way  of  bringing  that  unconscious  pattern
forward."

"Oh yes?"

"Yes, by introducing some random element that can  be  shaped  by
that pattern."

"Like how?"

"Like by pulling Scrabble letters out of a bag blindfolded."

Ford leapt to his feet.

"Brilliant!" he said. He tugged his towel out of his satchel  and
with a few deft knots transformed it into a bag.

"Totally mad," he said, "utter nonsense. But we'll do it  because
it's brilliant nonsense. Come on, come on."

The sun passed respectfully behind  a  cloud.  A  few  small  sad
raindrops fell.

They piled together all the remaining letters  and  dropped  them
into the bag. They shook them up.

"Right," said Ford, "close your eyes. Pull them out. Come on come
on, come on."

Arthur closed his eyes and plunged his hand into the towelful  of
stones. He jiggled them about, pulled out four and handed them to
Ford. Ford laid them along the ground in the order he got them.

"W," said Ford, "H, A, T ... What!"

He blinked.

"I think it's working!" he said.

Arthur pushed three more at him.

"D, O, Y ... Doy. Oh perhaps it isn't working," said Ford.

"Here's the next three."

"O, U, G ... Doyoug ... It's not making sense I'm afraid."

Arthur pulled another two from the bag. Ford put them in place.

"E, T, doyouget ... Do you get!" shouted Ford,  "it  is  working!
This is amazing, it really is working!"
"More here." Arthur was throwing them out feverishly as  fast  as
he could go.

"I, F," said Ford, "Y, O, U, ... M, U, L, T, I, P, L, Y, ... What
do  you  get if you multiply, ... S, I, X, ... six, B, Y, by, six
by ... what do you get if you multiply six by ... N, I, N, E, ...
six by nine ..." He paused. "Come on, where's the next one?"

"Er, that's the lot," said Arthur, "that's all there were."

He sat back, nonplussed.

He rooted around again in the knotted up towel but there were  no
more letters.

"You mean that's it?" said Ford.

"That's it."

"Six by nine. Forty-two."

"That's it. That's all there is."




The sun came out and beamed cheerfully at them. A  bird  sang.  A
warm  breeze wafted through the trees and lifted the heads of the
flowers, carrying their scent away through the woods.  An  insect
droned  past  on  its way to do whatever it is that insects do in
the late afternoon. The sound of voices lilted through the  trees
followed  a  moment later by two girls who stopped in surprise at
the sight of Ford Prefect and Arthur Dent apparently lying on the
ground in agony, but in fact rocking with noiseless laughter.

"No, don't go," called Ford Prefect between gasps, "we'll be with
you in a moment."

"What's the matter?" asked one of the girls. She was  the  taller
and  slimmer  of  the two. On Golgafrincham she had been a junior
personnel officer, but hadn't liked it much.

Ford pulled himself together.

"Excuse  me,"  he  said,  "hello.  My  friend  and  I  were  just
contemplating the meaning of life. Frivolous exercise."

"Oh it's you," said the girl, "you made a bit of a  spectacle  of
yourself  this  afternoon. You were quite funny to begin with but
you did bang on a bit."

"Did I? Oh yes."

"Yes, what was all that for?" asked the  other  girl,  a  shorter
round-faced  girl  who  had  been  an  art  director  for a small
advertising company on Golgafrincham. Whatever the privations  of
this  world  were,  she  went  to  sleep  every  night profoundly
grateful for the fact that  whatever  she  had  to  face  in  the
morning  it wouldn't be a hundred almost identical photographs of
moodily lit tubes of toothpaste.

"For? For nothing. Nothing's for  anything,"  said  Ford  Prefect
happily.  "Come  and  join  us. I"m Ford, this is Arthur. We were
just about to do nothing at all for a while but it can wait."

The girls looked at them doubtfully.

"I'm Agda," said the tall one, "this is Mella."

"Hello Agda, hello Mella," said Ford.

"Do you talk at all?" said Mella to Arthur.

"Oh, eventually," said Arthur with a smile, "but not as  much  as
Ford."

"Good."

There was a slight pause.

"What did you mean," asked Agda, "about only having  two  million
years? I couldn't make sense of what you were saying."

"Oh that," said Ford, "it doesn't matter."

"It's just that the world gets  demolished  to  make  way  for  a
hyperspace  bypass,"  said  Arthur  with a shrug, "but that's two
million years away, and anyway it's just Vogons doing what Vogons
do."

"Vogons?" said Mella.

"Yes, you wouldn't know them."

"Where'd you get this idea from?"

"It really doesn't matter. It's just like a dream from the  past,
or the future." Arthur smiled and looked away.

"Does it worry you that you don't talk any kind of sense?"  asked
Agda.

"Listen, forget it,"  said  Ford,  "forget  all  of  it.  Nothing
matters. Look, it's a beautiful day, enjoy it. The sun, the green
of the hills, the river down in the valley, the burning trees."

"Even if it's only a dream, it's a pretty  horrible  idea,"  said
Mella, "destroying a world just to make a bypass."

"Oh, I've heard of worse," said Ford, "I read of one  planet  off
in  the  seventh  dimension  that got used as a ball in a game of
intergalactic bar billiards. Got potted  straight  into  a  black
hole. Killed ten billion people."

"That's mad," said Mella.

"Yes, only scored thirty points too."
Agda and Mella exchanged glances.

"Look," said Agda, "there's a party after the  committee  meeting
tonight. You can come along if you like."

"Yeah, OK," said Ford.

"I'd like to," said Arthur.

Many hours later Arthur and Mella sat and watched the  moon  rise
over the dull red glow of the trees.

"That story about the world being destroyed ..." began Mella.

"In two million years, yes."

"You say it as if you really think it's true."

"Yes, I think it is. I think I was there."

She shook her head in puzzlement.

"You're very strange," she said.

"No, I'm very ordinary," said  Arthur,  "but  some  very  strange
things  have happened to me. You could say I'm more differed from
than differing."

"And that other world your friend talked about, the one that  got
pushed into a black hole."

"Ah, that I don't know about. It sounds like something  from  the
book."

"What book?"

Arthur paused.

"The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy," he said at last.

"What's that?"

"Oh, just something I threw into the river this evening. I  don't
think I'll be wanting it any more," said Arthur Dent.

The regular early morning yell of horror was the sound of  Arthur
Dent waking up and suddenly remembering where he was.

It wasn't just that the cave was cold, it wasn't just that it was
damp  and smelly. It was the fact that the cave was in the middle
of Islington and there wasn't a bus due for two million years.

Time is the worst place, so to speak, to get lost in,  as  Arthur
Dent  could  testify,  having  been lost in both time and space a
good deal. At least being lost in space kept you busy.

He was stranded in prehistoric Earth as the result of  a  complex
sequence of events which had involved him being alternately blown
up and insulted in more bizarre regions of  the  Galaxy  than  he
ever  dreamt  existed,  and  though his life had now turned very,
very, very quiet, he was still feeling jumpy.

He hadn't been blown up now for five years.

Since he had hardly seen anyone since he  and  Ford  Prefect  had
parted  company four years previously, he hadn't been insulted in
all that time either.

Except just once.

It had happened on a spring evening about two years previously.

He was returning to his cave just a little  after  dusk  when  he
became  aware  of  lights  flashing eerily through the clouds. He
turned and stared, with  hope  suddenly  clambering  through  his
heart. Rescue. Escape. The castaway's impossible dream - a ship.

And as he watched, as he stared in wonder and excitement, a  long
silver  ship  descended  through  the  warm evening air, quietly,
without fuss, its long legs  unlocking  in  a  smooth  ballet  of
technology.

It alighted gently on the ground, and  what  little  hum  it  had
generated died away, as if lulled by the evening calm.

A ramp extended itself.

Light streamed out.

A tall figure appeared silhouetted in  the  hatchway.  It  walked
down the ramp and stood in front of Arthur.

"You're a jerk, Dent," it said simply.

It was alien, very alien. It had a  peculiar  alien  tallness,  a
peculiar alien flattened head, peculiar slitty little alien eyes,
extravagantly draped golden ropes with a peculiarly alien  collar
design,  and  pale  grey-green alien skin which had about it that
lustrous shine which most grey-green faces can only acquire  with
plenty of exercise and very expensive soap.

Arthur boggled at it.

It gazed levelly at him.

Arthur's first sensations of hope and trepidation  had  instantly
been  overwhelmed by astonishment, and all sorts of thoughts were
battling for the use of his vocal chords at this moment.

"Whh ...?" he said.

"Bu ... hu ... uh ..." he added.

"Ru ... ra ... wah ... who?" he managed finally to say and lapsed
into  a  frantic  kind  of silence. He was feeling the effects of
having not said anything to anybody  for  as  long  as  he  could
remember.

The alien creature frowned briefly and consulted what appeared to
be some species of clipboard which he was holding in his thin and
spindly alien hand.

"Arthur Dent?" it said.

Arthur nodded helplessly.

"Arthur Philip Dent?" pursued the alien in a  kind  of  efficient
yap.

"Er ... er ... yes ... er ... er," confirmed Arthur.

"You're a jerk," repeated the alien, "a complete asshole."

"Er ..."

The creature nodded to itself, made a peculiar alien tick on  its
clipboard and turned briskly back towards the ship.
"Er ..." said Arthur desperately, "er ..."

"Don't give me that!" snapped the alien. It marched up the  ramp,
through  the  hatchway  and  disappeared  into the ship. The ship
sealed itself. It started to make a low throbbing hum.

"Er, hey!" shouted Arthur, and started to run helplessly  towards
it.

"Wait a minute!" he called. "What is this? What? Wait a minute!"

The ship rose, as if shedding its weight  like  a  cloak  to  the
ground,  and  hovered  briefly.  It  swept  strangely up into the
evening sky. It passed up through the clouds,  illuminating  them
briefly,  and then was gone, leaving Arthur alone in an immensity
of land dancing a helplessly tiny little dance.

"What?" he screamed. "What? What? Hey, what? Come back  here  and
say that!"

He jumped and danced until his legs trembled,  and  shouted  till
his  lungs  rasped. There was no answer from anyone. There was no
one to hear him or speak to him.

The alien ship was already thundering towards the  upper  reaches
of  the  atmosphere, on its way out into the appalling void which
separates the very few things there are in the Universe from each
other.

Its occupant, the alien with  the  expensive  complexion,  leaned
back  in  its  single seat. His name was Wowbagger the Infinitely
Prolonged. He was a man with a purpose. Not a very good  purpose,
as  he  would have been the first to admit, but it was at least a
purpose and it did at least keep him on the move.

Wowbagger the Infinitely Prolonged was --indeed, is - one of  the
Universe's very small number of immortal beings.

Those who are born immortal instinctively know how to  cope  with
it, but Wowbagger was not one of them. Indeed he had come to hate
them, the load of serene bastards. He  had  had  his  immortality
thrust  upon  him  by  an unfortunate accident with an irrational
particle accelerator, a liquid lunch and a pair of rubber  bands.
The  precise details of the accident are not important because no
one has ever managed to duplicate the exact  circumstances  under
which  it  happened,  and  many people have ended up looking very
silly, or dead, or both, trying.

Wowbagger closed his eyes in a grim  and  weary  expression,  put
some light jazz on the ship's stereo, and reflected that he could
have made it if it hadn't been for Sunday afternoons,  he  really
could have done.

To begin with it was fun, he  had  a  ball,  living  dangerously,
taking  risks,  cleaning  up on high-yield long-term investments,
and just generally outliving the hell out of everybody.

In the end, it was the Sunday afternoons he couldn't  cope  with,
and  that  terrible  listlessness which starts to set in at about
2.55, when you know  that  you've  had  all  the  baths  you  can
usefully  have that day, that however hard you stare at any given
paragraph in the papers you will never actually read it,  or  use
the revolutionary new pruning technique it describes, and that as
you stare at the clock the hands will  move  relentlessly  on  to
four  o'clock,  and  you  will enter the long dark teatime of the
soul.

So things began to pall for him. The merry smiles he used to wear
at other people's funerals began to fade. He began to despise the
Universe in general, and everyone in it in particular.

This was the point at which he conceived his purpose,  the  thing
which  would  drive  him  on,  and which, as far as he could see,
would drive him on forever. It was this.

He would insult the Universe.

That  is,  he  would  insult  everybody  in   it.   Individually,
personally, one by one, and (this was the thing he really decided
to grit his teeth over) in alphabetical order.

When people protested to him, as they sometimes  had  done,  that
the plan was not merely misguided but actually impossible because
of the number of people being born and dying  all  the  time,  he
would  merely  fix  them  with  a steely look and say, "A man can
dream can't he?"

And so he started out. He equipped a spaceship that was built  to
last   with  the  computer  capable  of  handling  all  the  data
processing involved in keeping track of the entire population  of
the  known  Universe and working out the horrifically complicated
routes involved.

His ship fled through the inner orbits of the  Sol  star  system,
preparing  to  slingshot  round the sun and fling itself out into
interstellar space.

"Computer," he said.

"Here," yipped the computer.

"Where next?"

"Computing that."

Wowbagger gazed for a moment at the fantastic  jewellery  of  the
night,  the  billions  of  tiny  diamond  worlds  that dusted the
infinite darkness with light. Every one, every single one, was on
his  itinerary.  Most  of  them  he would be going to millions of
times over.

He imagined for a moment his itinerary connecting up all the dots
in  the  sky  like  a child's numbered dots puzzle. He hoped that
from some vantage point in the Universe it might be seen to spell
a very, very rude word.

The computer beeped tunelessly to indicate that it  had  finished
its calculations.
"Folfanga," it said. It beeped.

"Fourth world of the Folfanga system," it  continued.  It  beeped
again.

"Estimated journey time, three weeks," it continued  further.  It
beeped again.

"There to meet with a small slug," it beeped, "of  the  genus  A-
Rth-Urp-Hil-Ipdenu."

"I believe," it added, after  a  slight  pause  during  which  it
beeped, "that you had decided to call it a brainless prat."

Wowbagger grunted. He watched the majesty of creation outside his
window for a moment or two.

"I think I'll take a nap," he said, and then added, "what network
areas are we going to be passing through in the next few hours?"

The computer beeped.

"Cosmovid, Thinkpix and Home Brain Box," it said, and beeped.

"Any movies I haven't seen thirty thousand times already?"

"No."

"Uh."

"There's Angst in  Space.  You've  only  seen  that  thirty-three
thousand five hundred and seventeen times."

"Wake me for the second reel."

The computer beeped.

"Sleep well," it said.

The ship fled on through the night.

Meanwhile, on Earth, it began to pour with rain and  Arthur  Dent
sat  in his cave and had one of the most truly rotten evenings of
his entire life, thinking of things he could  have  said  to  the
alien and swatting flies, who also had a rotten evening.

The next day he made himself a pouch out of rabbit  skin  because
he thought it would be useful to keep things in.




This morning, two years later than that, was sweet  and  fragrant
as  he  emerged from the cave he called home until he could think
of a better name for it or find a better cave.

Though his throat was sore again from his early morning  yell  of
horror,  he  was suddenly in a terrifically good mood. He wrapped
his dilapidated dressing gown tightly around him  and  beamed  at
the bright morning.

The air was clear and scented, the breeze flitted lightly through
the tall grass around his cave, the birds were chirruping at each
other, the butterflies were  flitting  about  prettily,  and  the
whole  of  nature seemed to be conspiring to be as pleasant as it
possibly could.

It wasn't all the pastoral delights that were making Arthur  feel
so  cheery, though. He had just had a wonderful idea about how to
cope with the terrible  lonely  isolation,  the  nightmares,  the
failure  of  all  his  attempts  at  horticulture,  and the sheer
futurelessness and futility  of  his  life  here  on  prehistoric
Earth, which was that he would go mad.

He beamed again and took a bite out of a  rabbit  leg  left  over
from  his  supper.  He  chewed happily for a few moments and then
decided formally to announce his decision.

He stood up straight and looked the world squarely in the  fields
and hills. To add weight to his words he stuck the rabbit bone in
his hair. He spread his arms out wide.

"I will go mad!" he announced.

"Good idea," said Ford Prefect, clambering down from the rock  on
which he had been sitting.

Arthur's brain somersaulted. His jaw did press-ups.

"I went mad for a while," said Ford, "did me no end of good."

"You see," said Ford, "- ..."

"Where have you been?" interrupted Arthur, now that his head  had
finished working out.

"Around," said Ford, "around and about." He grinned  in  what  he
accurately  judged  to  be an infuriating manner. "I just took my
mind off the hook for a bit. I reckoned that if the world  wanted
me badly enough it would call back. It did."

 He took out of his now terribly battered and dilapidated satchel
his Sub-Etha Sens-O-Matic.

"At least," he said, "I think it did. This has been playing up  a
bit."  He  shook it. "If it was a false alarm I shall go mad," he
said, "again."

Arthur shook his head and sat down. He looked up.

"I thought you must be dead ..." he said simply.

"So did I for a while," said Ford, "and then I decided  I  was  a
lemon  for  a couple of weeks. A kept myself amused all that time
jumping in and out of a gin and tonic."

Arthur cleared his throat, and then did it again.
"Where," he said, "did you ...?"

"Find a gin and tonic?" said Ford brightly. "I found a small lake
that  thought  it  was  a gin and tonic, and jumped in and out of
that. At least, I think it thought it was a gin and tonic."

"I may," he added with a grin which  would  have  sent  sane  men
scampering into trees, "have been imagining it."

He waited for a reaction from Arthur, but Arthur knew better than
that.

"Carry on," he said levelly.

"The point is, you see," said Ford, "that there is  no  point  in
driving yourself mad trying to stop yourself going mad. You might
just as well give in and save your sanity for later."

"And this is you sane again, is it?" said Arthur. "I  ask  merely
for information."

"I went to Africa," said Ford.

"Yes?"

"Yes."

"What was that like?"

"And this is your cave is it?" said Ford.

"Er, yes," said Arthur. He felt very strange. After  nearly  four
years  of  total  isolation he was so pleased and relieved to see
Ford that he could almost cry. Ford was, on the  other  hand,  an
almost immediately annoying person.

"Very nice," said Ford, in reference to Arthur's cave. "You  must
hate it."

Arthur didn't bother to reply.

"Africa was very interesting," said Ford, "I behaved  very  oddly
there."

He gazed thoughtfully into the distance.

"I took up being cruel to animals," he said airily.  "But  only,"
he added, "as a hobby."

"Oh yes," said Arthur, warily.

"Yes," Ford assured him. "I won't disturb you  with  the  details
because they would -"

"What?"

"Disturb you. But you  may  be  interested  to  know  that  I  am
singlehandedly  responsible  for  the evolved shape of the animal
you came to know in later centuries as a giraffe. And I tried  to
learn to fly. Do you believe me?"

"Tell me," said Arthur.

"I'll tell you later. I'll just mention that the Guide says ..."

"The ...?"

"Guide. The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy. You remember?"

"Yes. I remember throwing it in the river."

"Yes," said Ford, "but I fished it out."

"You didn't tell me."

"I didn't want you to throw it in again."

"Fair enough," admitted Arthur. "It says?"

"What?"

"The Guide says?"

"The Guide says there is an art to flying," said Ford, "or rather
a  knack. The knack lies in learning how to throw yourself at the
ground and miss." He smiled weakly. He pointed at  the  knees  of
his  trousers  and held his arms up to show the elbows. They were
all torn and worn through.

"I haven't done very well so far," he  said.  He  stuck  out  his
hand. "I'm very glad to see you again, Arthur," he added.

Arthur  shook  his  head  in  a  sudden  access  of  emotion  and
bewilderment.

"I haven't seen anyone for years," he said, "not  anyone.  I  can
hardly  even  remember  how  to speak. I keep forgetting words. I
practise you see. I practise by talking to  ...  talking  to  ...
what  are  those  things  people think you're mad if you talk to?
Like George the Third."

"Kings?" suggested Ford.

"No, no," said Arthur. "The things he  used  to  talk  to.  We're
surrounded  by  them  for  heaven's  sake.  I've planted hundreds
myself. They all died. Trees! I practise  by  talking  to  trees.
What's that for?"

Ford still had his hand stuck  out.  Arthur  looked  at  it  with
incomprehension.

"Shake," prompted Ford.

Arthur did, nervously at first, as if it might turn out to  be  a
fish.  Then  he  grasped  it  vigorously  with  both  hands in an
overwhelming flood of relief. He shook it and shook it.
After a while Ford found it necessary to disengage. They  climbed
to  the  top  of  a nearby outcrop of rock and surveyed the scene
around them.

"What happened to the Golgafrinchans?" asked Ford.

Arthur shrugged.

"A lot of them didn't make it  through  the  winter  three  years
ago,"  he said, "and the few who remained in the spring said they
needed a holiday and set off on a raft. History  says  that  they
must have survived ..."

"Huh," said Ford, "well well." He stuck his hands on his hips and
looked  round again at the empty world. Suddenly, there was about
Ford a sense of energy and purpose.

"We're going," he said excitedly, and shivered with energy.

"Where? How?" said Arthur.

"I don't know," said Ford, "but I just  feel  that  the  time  is
right. Things are going to happen. We're on our way."

He lowered his voice to a whisper.

"I have detected," he said, "disturbances in the wash."

He gazed keenly into the distance and looked as if he would quite
like  the  wind to blow his hair back dramatically at that point,
but the wind was busy fooling around with some  leaves  a  little
way off.

Arthur asked him to repeat what  he  had  just  said  because  he
hadn't quite taken his meaning. Ford repeated it.

"The wash?" said Arthur.

"The space-time wash," said Ford, and as the  wind  blew  briefly
past at that moment, he bared his teeth into it.

Arthur nodded, and then cleared his throat.

"Are we talking about," he asked cautiously, "some sort of  Vogon
laundromat, or what are we talking about?"

"Eddies," said Ford, "in the space-time continuum."

"Ah," nodded Arthur, "is he? Is he?" He pushed his hands into the
pocket  of  his  dressing  gown and looked knowledgeably into the
distance.

"What?" said Ford.

"Er, who," said Arthur, "is Eddy, then, exactly?"

Ford looked angrily at him.

"Will you listen?" he snapped.
"I have been listening," said Arthur,  "but  I'm  not  sure  it's
helped."

Ford grasped him by the lapels of his dressing gown and spoke  to
him as slowly and distinctly and patiently as if he were somebody
from a telephone company accounts department.

"There seem ..." he said, "to be some pools  ..."  he  said,  "of
instability ..." he said, "in the fabric ..." he said ...

Arthur looked foolishly at the cloth of his dressing  gown  where
Ford  was  holding it. Ford swept on before Arthur could turn the
foolish look into a foolish remark.

"... in the fabric of space-time," he said.

"Ah, that," said Arthur.

"Yes, that," confirmed Ford.

They stood there alone on a hill on prehistoric Earth and  stared
each other resolutely in the face.

"And it's done what?" said Arthur.

"It," said Ford, "has developed pools of instability."

"Has it?" said Arthur, his eyes not wavering for a moment.

"It has," said Ford with a similar degree of ocular immobility.

"Good," said Arthur.

"See?" said Ford.

"No," said Arthur.

There was a quiet pause.

"The difficulty with this conversation," said Arthur after a sort
of  pondering  look  had  crawled  slowly  across his face like a
mountaineer negotiating a tricky  outcrop,  "is  that  it's  very
different  from  most  of  the ones I've had of late. Which, as I
explained, have mostly been with trees. They weren't  like  this.
Except  perhaps  some  of  the  ones  I've  had  with  elms which
sometimes get a bit bogged down."

"Arthur," said Ford.

"Hello? Yes?" said Arthur.

"Just believe everything I tell you, and it  will  all  be  very,
very simple."

"Ah, well I'm not sure I believe that."

They sat down and composed their thoughts.
Ford got out his  Sub-Etha  Sens-O-Matic.  It  was  making  vague
humming noises and a tiny light on it was flickering faintly.

"Flat battery?" said Arthur.

"No," said Ford, "there is a moving disturbance in the fabric  of
space-time, an eddy, a pool of instability, and it's somewhere in
our vicinity."

"Where?"

Ford moved the device in  a  slow  lightly  bobbing  semi-circle.
Suddenly the light flashed.

"There!" said Ford, shooting out his  arm.  "There,  behind  that
sofa!"

Arthur looked. Much to his surprise, there was a velvet  paisley-
covered  Chesterfield  sofa  in  the  field  in front of them. He
boggled intelligently at it. Shrewd  questions  sprang  into  his
mind.

"Why," he said, "is there a sofa in that field?"

"I told you!" shouted Ford, leaping to his feet. "Eddies  in  the
space-time continuum!"

"And this is his sofa, is it?" asked Arthur,  struggling  to  his
feet  and,  he  hoped,  though  not  very  optimistically, to his
senses.

"Arthur!" shouted Ford at him, "that sofa is there because of the
space-time  instability  I've  been trying to get your terminally
softened brain to get to grips with. It's been washed out of  the
continuum,  it's space-time jetsam, it doesn't matter what it is,
we've got to catch it, it's our only way out of here!"

He scrambled rapidly down the rocky outcrop and made  off  across
the field.

"Catch it?" muttered Arthur, then frowned in bemusement as he saw
that  the Chesterfield was lazily bobbing and wafting away across
the grass.

With a whoop of utterly unexpected delight he leapt down the rock
and  plunged  off  in  hectic  pursuit  of  Ford  Prefect and the
irrational piece of furniture.

They  careered  wildly  through  the  grass,  leaping,  laughing,
shouting  instructions  to  each other to head the thing off this
way or that way. The sun shone dreamily  on  the  swaying  grass,
tiny field animals scattered crazily in their wake.

Arthur felt happy. He was terribly pleased that the day  was  for
once  working  out so much according to plan. Only twenty minutes
ago he had decided he would  go  mad,  and  now  he  was  already
chasing  a  Chesterfield  sofa  across  the fields of prehistoric
Earth.
The sofa bobbed this way and that and seemed simultaneously to be
as solid as the trees as it drifted past some of them and hazy as
a billowing dream as it floated like a ghost through others.

Ford and Arthur pounded chaotically after it, but it  dodged  and
weaved  as  if following its own complex mathematical topography,
which it was. Still they pursued, still it danced and  span,  and
suddenly   turned  and  dipped  as  if  crossing  the  lip  of  a
catastrophe graph, and they were practically on top of it. With a
heave and a shout they leapt on it, the sun winked out, they fell
through a sickening nothingness, and emerged unexpectedly in  the
middle  of  the  pitch  at Lord's Cricked Ground, St John's Wood,
London, towards the end of the last Test Match of the  Australian
Series  in  the year 198-, with England needing only twenty-eight
runs to win.




Important facts from Galactic history, number one:

(Reproduced from the Siderial Daily Mentioner's Book  of  popular
Galactic History.)

The night sky over the planet Krikkit is  the  least  interesting
sight in the entire Universe.




It was a charming and delightful day at Lord's as Ford and Arthur
tumbled  haphazardly  out  of  a  space-time  anomaly and hit the
immaculate turf rather hard.

The applause of the crowd was tremendous. It wasn't for them, but
instinctively  they bowed anyway, which was fortunate because the
small red heavy ball which the crowd actually had been applauding
whistled  mere millimetres over Arthur's head. In the crowd a man
collapsed.

They threw themselves back to the ground  which  seemed  to  spin
hideously around them.

"What was that?" hissed Arthur.

"Something red," hissed Ford back at him.

"Where are we?"

"Er, somewhere green."

"Shapes," muttered Arthur. "I need shapes."

The applause of the crowd had been rapidly succeeded by gasps  of
astonishment,  and  the awkward titters of hundreds of people who
could not yet make up their minds about whether to  believe  what
they had just seen or not.

"This your sofa?" said a voice.
"What was that?" whispered Ford.

Arthur looked up.

"Something blue," he said.

"Shape?" said Ford.

Arthur looked again.

"It is shaped,"  he  hissed  at  Ford,  with  his  brow  savagely
furrowing, "like a policeman."

They remained crouched there for a few moments, frowning  deeply.
The  blue  thing  shaped like a policeman tapped them both on the
shoulders.

"Come on, you two," the shape said, "let's be having you."

These words had an electrifying effect on Arthur. He leapt to his
feet  like  an author hearing the phone ring and shot a series of
startled glanced at the panorama around him  which  had  suddenly
settled down into something of quite terrifying ordinariness.

"Where did you get this from?" he yelled at the policeman shape.

"What did you say?" said the startled shape.

"This is Lord's Cricket Ground, isn't it?" snapped Arthur. "Where
did  you  find  it,  how did you get it here? I think," he added,
clasping his hand to his brow, "that I had better calm down."  He
squatted down abruptly in front of Ford.

"It is a policeman," he said, "What do we do?"

Ford shrugged.

"What do you want to do?" he said.

"I want you," said Arthur, "to tell me that I have been  dreaming
for the last five years."

Ford shrugged again, and obliged.

"You've been dreaming for the last five years," he said.

Arthur got to his feet.

"It's all right, officer," he said. "I've been dreaming  for  the
last five years. Ask him," he added, pointing at Ford, "he was in
it."

Having said this, he sauntered off towards the edge of the pitch,
brushing  down  his  dressing  gown. He then noticed his dressing
gown and stopped. He stared  at  it.  He  flung  himself  at  the
policeman.

"So where did I get these clothes from?" he howled.
He collapsed and lay twitching on the grass.

Ford shook his head.

"He's had a bad two million years," he said to the policeman, and
together  they  heaved  Arthur on to the sofa and carried him off
the  pitch  and  were  only  briefly  hampered  by   the   sudden
disappearance of the sofa on the way.

Reaction to all this from the crowd were many and  various.  Most
of them couldn't cope with watching it, and listened to it on the
radio instead.

"Well, this is an interesting incident, Brian,"  said  one  radio
commentator  to  another.  "I  don't  think  there  have been any
mysterious materializations on the pitch since, oh since, well  I
don't think there have been any - have there? - that I recall?"

"Edgbaston, 1932?"

"Ah, now what happened then ..."

"Well, Peter, I think it was Canter facing Willcox coming  up  to
bowl from the pavilion end when a spectator suddenly ran straight
across the pitch."

There was a pause while the first commentator considered this.

"Ye ... e ... s ..." he said, "yes, there's nothing actually very
mysterious  about that, is there? He didn't actually materialize,
did he? Just ran on."

"No, that's true,  but  he  did  claim  to  have  seen  something
materialize on the pitch."

"Ah, did he?"

"Yes. An alligator, I think, of some description."

"Ah. And had anyone else noticed it?"

"Apparently not. And no one was  able  to  get  a  very  detailed
description  from  him,  so  only the most perfunctory search was
made."

"And what happened to the man?"

"Well, I think someone offered to take him off and give him  some
lunch,  but he explained that he'd already had a rather good one,
so the matter was dropped and Warwickshire  went  on  to  win  by
three wickets."

"So, not very like this current instance. For those of you who've
just  tuned  in,  you  may be interested to know that, er ... two
men, two rather scruffily attired men, and  indeed  a  sofa  -  a
Chesterfield I think?"

"Yes, a Chesterfield."
"Have just materialized here in  the  middle  of  Lord's  Cricket
Ground.  But I don't think they meant any harm, they've been very
good-natured about it, and ..."

"Sorry, can I interrupt you a moment Peter and say that the  sofa
has just vanished."

"So it has. Well, that's one mystery less. Still, it's definitely
one  for the record books I think, particularly occurring at this
dramatic moment in play, England  now  needing  only  twenty-four
runs  to  win  the  series.  The men are leaving the pitch in the
company of a police officer, and I think everyone's settling down
now and play is about to resume."

"Now, sir," said the policeman after  they  had  made  a  passage
through the curious crowd and laid Arthur's peacefully inert body
on a blanket, "perhaps you'd care to tell me who you  are,  where
you come from, and what that little scene was all about?"

Ford looked at the ground for a moment as  if  steadying  himself
for  something,  then  he straightened up and aimed a look at the
policeman which hit him with the full force of every inch of  the
six  hundred  light-years' distance between Earth and Ford's home
near Betelgeuse.

"All right," said Ford, very quietly, "I'll tell you."

"Yes,  well,  that  won't  be  necessary,"  said  the   policeman
hurriedly,  "just  don't  let whatever  it was happen again." The
policeman turned around and wandered off in search of anyone  who
wasn't from Betelgeuse. Fortunately, the ground was full of them.

Arthur's consciousness  approached  his  body  as  from  a  great
distance,  and  reluctantly.  It had had some bad times in there.
Slowly,  nervously,  it  entered  and  settled  down  in  to  its
accustomed position.

Arthur sat up.

"Where am I?" he said.

"Lord's Cricket Ground," said Ford.

"Fine," said Arthur, and his consciousness stepped out again  for
a quick breather. His body flopped back on the grass.

Ten minutes later, hunched over a cup of tea in  the  refreshment
tent, the colour started to come back to his haggard face.

"How're you feeling?" said Ford.

"I'm home," said Arthur hoarsely. He closed his eyes and greedily
inhaled  the  steam  from  his tea as if it was - well, as far as
Arthur was concerned, as if it was tea, which it was.

"I'm home," he repeated, "home. It's  England,  it's  today,  the
nightmare is over." He opened his eyes again and smiled serenely.
"I'm where I belong," he said in an emotional whisper.
"There are two things I fell which I should tell you," said Ford,
tossing a copy of the Guardian over the table at him.

"I'm home," said Arthur.

"Yes," said Ford. "One is," he said pointing at the date  at  the
top of the paper, "that the Earth will be demolished in two days'
time."

"I'm home," said Arthur. "Tea," he said, "cricket," he added with
pleasure,  "mown grass, wooden benches, white linen jackets, beer
cans ..."

Slowly he began to focus on the newspaper. He cocked his head  on
one side with a slight frown.

"I've seen that one before," he said. His eyes wandered slowly up
to the date, which Ford was idly tapping at. His face froze for a
second or two and then began to do that  terribly  slow  crashing
trick which Arctic ice-floes do so spectacularly in the spring.

"And the other thing," said Ford, "is that you appear to  have  a
bone in your beard." He tossed back his tea.

Outside the refreshment tent, the sun  was  shining  on  a  happy
crowd.  It  shone  on  white  hats and red faces. It shone on ice
lollies and melted them. It shone on the tears of small  children
whose  ice  lollies  had just melted and fallen off the stick. It
shone on the trees, it flashed  off  whirling  cricket  bats,  it
gleamed  off  the  utterly  extraordinary object which was parked
behind the  sight-screens  and  which  nobody  appeared  to  have
noticed.  It  beamed  on Ford and Arthur as they emerged blinking
from the refreshment tent and surveyed the scene around them.

Arthur was shaking.

"Perhaps," he said, "I should ..."

"No," said Ford sharply.

"What?" said Arthur.

"Don't try and phone yourself up at home."

"How did you know ...?"

Ford shrugged.

"But why not?" said Arthur.

"People who talk to themselves on the phone," said  Ford,  "never
learn anything to their advantage."

"But ..."

"Look," said Ford. He picked up an imaginary phone and dialled an
imaginary dial.
"Hello?" he said into the imaginary mouthpiece. "Is  that  Arthur
Dent?  Ah,  hello,  yes. This is Arthur Dent speaking. Don't hang
up."

He looked at the imaginary mouthpiece in disappointment.

"He hung up," he said, shrugged,  and  put  the  imaginary  phone
neatly back on its imaginary hook.

"This is not my first temporal anomaly," he added.

A glummer look replaced the already glum look  on  Arthur  Dent's
face.

"So we're not home and dry," he said.

"We could not even be  said,"  replied  Ford,  "to  be  home  and
vigorously towelling ourselves off."

The game continued. The bowler approached the wicket at a lope, a
trot,  and  then  a run. He suddenly exploded in a flurry of arms
and legs, out of  which  flew  a  ball.  The  batsman  swung  and
thwacked  it  behind  him  over  the  sight-screens.  Ford's eyes
followed the trajectory of the ball and  jogged  momentarily.  He
stiffened.  He looked along the flight path of the ball again and
his eyes twitched again.

"This isn't my towel," said Arthur,  who  was  rummaging  in  his
rabbit-skin bag.

"Shhh," said Ford. He screwed his eyes up in concentration.

"I had a Golgafrinchan jogging towel," continued Arthur, "it  was
blue with yellow stars on it. This isn't it."

"Shhh," said Ford again. He covered one eye and looked  with  the
other.

"This one's pink," said Arthur, "it isn't yours is it?"

"I would like you to shut up about your towel," said Ford.

"It isn't my towel," insisted Arthur, "that is  the  point  I  am
trying to ..."

"And the time at which I would like you to  shut  up  about  it,"
continued Ford in a low growl, "is now."

"All right," said Arthur, starting to  stuff  it  back  into  the
primitively  stitched  rabbit-skin  bag.  "I  realize  that it is
probably not important in the cosmic scale of things,  it's  just
odd,  that's  all.  A  pink towel suddenly, instead of a blue one
with yellow stars."

Ford was beginning to behave  rather  strangely,  or  rather  not
actually beginning to behave strangely but beginning to behave in
a way which was strangely different from the other  strange  ways
in  which  he more regularly behaved. What he was doing was this.
Regardless of the bemused stares it was provoking from his fellow
members  of the crowd gathered round the pitch, he was waving his
hands in sharp movements across his  face,  ducking  down  behind
some  people,  leaping  up behind others, then standing still and
blinking a lot. After a moment or two of this he started to stalk
forward   slowly  and  stealthily  wearing  a  puzzled  frown  of
concentration, like a leopard that's not sure whether  it's  just
seen  a  half-empty tin of cat food half a mile away across a hot
and dusty plain.

"This isn't my bag either," said Arthur suddenly.

Ford's spell of concentration was broken. He  turned  angrily  on
Arthur.

"I  wasn't  talking  about  my  towel,"   said   Arthur.   "We've
established  that  that  isn't  mine. It's just that the bag into
which I was putting the towel which is not mine is also not mine,
though it is extraordinarily similar. Now personally I think that
that is extremely odd, especially as  the  bag  was  one  I  made
myself  on  prehistoric  Earth. These are also not my stones," he
added, pulling a few flat grey stones out  of  the  bag.  "I  was
making  a  collection of interesting stones and these are clearly
very dull ones."

A roar of excitement thrilled through the crowd  and  obliterated
whatever  it  was  that  Ford  said  in  reply  to  this piece of
information. The cricket ball which  had  excited  this  reaction
fell  out  of the sky and dropped neatly into Arthur's mysterious
rabbit-skin bag.

"Now I would say that that was also a very curious  event,"  said
Arthur,  rapidly  closing  the bag and pretending to look for the
ball on the ground.

"I don't think  it's  here,"  he  said  to  the  small  boys  who
immediately  clustered  round  him  to  join  in  the search, "it
probably rolled off somewhere. Over there I expect."  He  pointed
vaguely  in the direction in which he wished they would push off.
One of the boys looked at him quizzically.

"You all right?" said the boy.

"No," said Arthur.

"Then why you got a bone in your beard?" said the boy.

"I'm training it to like being wherever it's put." Arthur  prided
himself  on  saying this. It was, he thought, exactly the sort of
thing which would entertain and stimulate young minds.

"Oh," said the small boy,  putting  his  head  to  one  side  and
thinking about it. "What's your name?"

"Dent," said Arthur, "Arthur Dent."

"You're a jerk, Dent," said the boy, "a  complete  asshole."  The
boy  looked past him at something else, to show that he wasn't in
any  particular  hurry  to  run  away,  and  then  wandered   off
scratching  his  nose.  Suddenly Arthur remembered that the Earth
was going to be demolished again in two days' time, and just this
once didn't feel too bad about it.

Play resumed with a new ball, the sun continued to shine and Ford
continued to jump up and down shaking his head and blinking.

"Something's on your mind, isn't it?" said Arthur.

"I think," said Ford in a tone  of  voice  which  Arthur  by  now
recognized    as    one    which   presaged   something   utterly
unintelligible, "that there's an SEP over there."

He pointed. Curiously enough, the direction he pointed in was not
the  one  in  which  he  was  looking.  Arthur  looked in the one
direction, which was towards the sight-screens, and in the  other
which  was  at  the  field  of  play.  He nodded, he shrugged. He
shrugged again.

"A what?" he said.

"An SEP."

"An S ...?"

"... EP."

"And what's that?"

"Somebody Else's Problem."

"Ah, good," said Arthur and relaxed. He had no idea what all that
was about, but at least it seemed to be over. It wasn't.

"Over there," said Ford, again pointing at the sight-screens  and
looking at the pitch.

"Where?" said Arthur.

"There!" said Ford.

"I see," said Arthur, who didn't.

"You do?" said Ford.

"What?" said Arthur.

"Can you see," said Ford patiently, "the SEP?"

"I thought you said that was somebody else's problem."

"That's right."

Arthur nodded slowly,  carefully  and  with  an  air  of  immense
stupidity.

"And I want to know," said Ford, "if you can see it."

"You do?"
"Yes."

"What," said Arthur, "does it look like?"

"Well, how should I know, you fool?" shouted Ford.  "If  you  can
see it, you tell me."

Arthur experienced that dull throbbing sensation just behind  the
temples which was a hallmark of so many of his conversations with
Ford. His brain lurked like a frightened  puppy  in  its  kennel.
Ford took him by the arm.

"An SEP," he said, "is something that we can't see, or don't see,
or  our  brain  doesn't  let  us  see, because we think that it's
somebody else's problem. That's what SEP means.  Somebody  Else's
Problem.  The brain just edits it out, it's like a blind spot. If
you look at  it  directly  you  won't  see  it  unless  you  know
precisely  what  it is. Your only hope is to catch it by surprise
out of the corner of your eye."

"Ah," said Arthur, "then that's why ..."

"Yes," said Ford, who knew what Arthur was going to say.

"... you've been jumping up and ..."

"Yes."

"... down, and blinking ..."

"Yes."

"... and ..."

"I think you've got the message."

"I can see it," said Arthur, "it's a spaceship."

For a moment Arthur was stunned by the reaction  this  revelation
provoked. A roar erupted from the crowd, and from every direction
people were running, shouting, yelling, tumbling over each  other
in  a  tumult  of confusion. He stumbled back in astonishment and
glanced fearfully around. Then he glanced around  again  in  even
greater astonishment.

"Exciting, isn't it?" said an apparition. The apparition  wobbled
in  front  of  Arthur's  eyes,  though the truth of the matter is
probably that  Arthur's  eyes  were  wobbling  in  front  of  the
apparition. His mouth wobbled as well.

"W ... w ... w ... w ..." his mouth said.

"I think your team have just won," said the apparition.

"W ... w ... w ... w ..." repeated Arthur,  and  punctuated  each
wobble  with  a  prod at Ford Prefect's back. Ford was staring at
the tumult in trepidation.

"You are English, aren't you?" said the apparition.
"W ... w ... w ... w ... yes" said Arthur.

"Well, your team, as I say, have just won. The  match.  It  means
they  retain the Ashes. You must be very pleased. I must say, I'm
rather fond of cricket, though I  wouldn't  like  anyone  outside
this planet to hear me saying that. Oh dear no."

The apparition gave what looked  as  if  it  might  have  been  a
mischievous  grin,  but  it  was hard to tell because the sun was
directly behind him, creating a blinding halo round his head  and
illuminating  his  silver  hair  and  beard  in  a  way which was
awesome, dramatic and hard to reconcile with mischievous grins.

"Still," he said, "it'll all be over in a couple of  days,  won't
it?  Though  as  I said to you when we last met, I was very sorry
about that. Still, whatever will have been, will have been."

Arthur tried to speak, but  gave  up  the  unequal  struggle.  He
prodded Ford again.

"I thought something terrible had happened," said Ford, "but it's
just  the  end  of  the  game.  We  ought  to get out. Oh, hello,
Slartibartfast, what are you doing here?"

"Oh, pottering, pottering," said the old man gravely.

"That your ship? Can you give us a lift anywhere?"

"Patience, patience," the old man admonished.

"OK," said Ford. "It's  just  that  this  planet's  going  to  be
demolished pretty soon."

"I know that," said Slartibartfast.

"And, well, I just wanted to make that point," said Ford.

"The point is taken."

And if you feel that you really want to  hang  around  a  cricket
pitch at this point ..."

"I do."

"Then it's your ship."

"It is."

"I suppose." Ford turned away sharply at this point.

"Hello, Slartibartfast," said Arthur at last.

"Hello, Earthman," said Slartibartfast.

"After all," said Ford, "we can only die once."

The old man ignored this and stared keenly on to the pitch,  with
eyes  that  seemed  alive  with  expressions that had no apparent
bearing on what was happening out there. What was  happening  was
that  the crowd was gathering itself into a wide circle round the
centre of the pitch. What Slartibartfast  saw  in  it,  he  alone
knew.

Ford was humming something. It was  just  one  note  repeated  at
intervals.  He was hoping that somebody would ask him what he was
humming, but nobody did. If anybody had asked him he  would  have
said  he  was humming the first line of a Noel Coward song called
"Mad About the Boy" over and over again. It would then have  been
pointed out to him that he was only singing one note, to which he
would have replied that for  reasons  which  he  hoped  would  be
apparent, he was omitting the "about the boy" bit. He was annoyed
that nobody asked.

"It's just," he burst out at last, "that if we don't go soon,  we
might  get  caught  in  the  middle  of it all again. And there's
nothing that  depresses  me  more  than  seeing  a  planet  being
destroyed.  Except  possibly  still  being on it when it happens.
Or," he added in an undertone, "hanging around cricket matches."

"Patience," said Slartibartfast again. "Great things are afoot."

"That's what you said last time we met," said Arthur.

"They were," said Slartibartfast.

"Yes, that's true," admitted Arthur.

All, however, that seemed to be afoot  was  a  ceremony  of  some
kind.  It was being specially staged for the benefit of tv rather
than the spectators, and all they  could  gather  about  it  from
where they were standing was what they heard from a nearby radio.
Ford was aggressively uninterested.

He fretted as he heard it explained that the Ashes were about  to
be  presented to the Captain of the English team out there on the
pitch, fumed when told that this was because  they  had  now  won
them  for  the  nth time, positively barked with annoyance at the
information that the Ashes were the remains of a  cricket  stump,
and  when, further to this, he was asked to contend with the fact
that the cricket stump in question had been burnt  in  Melbourne,
Australia, in 1882, to signify the "death of English cricket", he
rounded on Slartibartfast, took a deep breath, but didn't have  a
chance  to  say anything because the old man wasn't there. He was
marching out on to the pitch with terrible purpose in  his  gait,
his  hair, beard and robes swept behind him, looking very much as
Moses would have looked if Sinai had been a well-cut lawn instead
of, as it is more usually represented, a fiery smoking mountain.

"He said to meet him at his ship," said Arthur.

"What in the name of zarking fardwarks is the  old  fool  doing?"
exploded Ford.

"Meeting us at his ship in two minutes," said Arthur with a shrug
which  indicated  total  abdication  of thought. They started off
towards it. Strange sounds reached their ears. They tried not  to
listen,  but  could  not  help  noticing  that Slartibartfast was
querulously demanding that he be given the silver urn  containing
the  Ashes,  as  they  were,  he said, "vitally important for the
past, present and future safety of the Galaxy", and that this was
causing wild hilarity. They resolved to ignore it.

What happened next they could not ignore. With  a  noise  like  a
hundred  thousand  people  saying "wop", a steely white spaceship
suddenly seemed to create  itself  out  of  nothing  in  the  air
directly  above  the  cricket  pitch and hung there with infinite
menace and a slight hum.

Then for a while it did nothing, as if it expected  everybody  to
go  about  their  normal  business  and  not mind it just hanging
there.

Then it did something quite extraordinary. Or rather,  it  opened
up  and  let something quite extraordinary come out of it, eleven
quite extraordinary things.

They were robots, white robots.

What was most extraordinary about them was that they appeared  to
have come dressed for the occasion. Not only were they white, but
they carried what appeared to be cricket bats, and not only that,
but  they also carried what appeared to be cricket balls, and not
only that but they wore white ribbing pads round the lower  parts
of  their  legs.  These  last  were  extraordinary  because  they
appeared to contain jets which allowed these curiously  civilized
robots  to  fly  down  from their hovering spaceship and start to
kill people, which is what they did

"Hello," said Arthur, "something seems to be happening."

"Get to the ship," shouted Ford. "I don't want to know,  I  don't
want to see, I don't want to hear," he yelled as he ran, "this is
not my planet, I didn't choose to be here, I don't  want  to  get
involved,  just  get  me out of here, and get me to a party, with
people I can relate to!"

Smoke and flame billowed from the pitch.

"Well, the supernatural brigade certainly  seems  to  be  out  in
force here today ..." burbled a radio happily to itself.

"What I need," shouted Ford, by way of  clarifying  his  previous
remarks,  "is  a  strong drink and a peer-group." He continued to
run, pausing only for a moment to grab Arthur's arm and drag  him
along  with him. Arthur had adopted his normal crisis role, which
was to stand with his mouth hanging open and let it all wash over
him.

"They're playing cricket," muttered Arthur, stumbling along after
Ford.  "I  swear they are playing cricket. I do not know why they
are doing this, but that is what they are doing. They're not just
killing  people,  they're  sending  them  up," he shouted, "Ford,
they're sending us up!"

It would have been hard to  disbelieve  this  without  knowing  a
great  deal  more Galactic history than Arthur had so far managed
to pick up in his travels. The ghostly but  violent  shapes  that
could  be seen moving within the thick pall of smoke seemed to be
performing a series of bizarre parodies of batting  strokes,  the
difference  being  that  every  ball  they struck with their bats
exploded wherever it landed. The very  first  one  of  these  had
dispelled  Arthur's  initial reaction, that the whole thing might
just be a publicity stunt by Australian margarine manufacturers.

And then, as suddenly as it had all started,  it  was  over.  The
eleven  white  robots  ascended  through  the seething cloud in a
tight formation, and with a few last flashes of flame entered the
bowels  of  their hovering white ship, which, with the noise of a
hundred thousand people saying "foop", promptly vanished into the
thin air out of which it had wopped.

For a moment there was a terrible stunned silence, and  then  out
of  the  drifting smoke emerged the pale figure of Slartibartfast
looking even more like Moses because in spite  of  the  continued
absence  of  the  mountain  he was at least now striding across a
fiery and smoking well-mown lawn.

He stared wildly about him until he saw the hurrying  figures  of
Arthur  Dent  and  Ford  Prefect  forcing  their  way through the
frightened crowd which was for the moment busy stampeding in  the
opposite  direction.  The  crowd  was  clearly thinking to itself
about what an unusual day this was turning out  to  be,  and  not
really knowing which way, if any, to turn.

Slartibartfast was gesturing urgently  at  Ford  and  Arthur  and
shouting at them, as the three of them gradually converged on his
ship, still parked behind the sight-screens and still  apparently
unnoticed  by  the  crowd  stampeding  past it who presumably had
enough of their own problems to cope with at that time.

"They've garble warble farble!"  shouted  Slartibartfast  in  his
thin tremulous voice.

"What did he say?" panted Ford as he elbowed his way onwards.

Arthur shook his head.

"`They've ...' something or other," he said.

"They've table warble farble!" shouted Slartibartfast again.

Ford and Arthur shook their heads at each other.

"It sounds urgent," said Arthur. He stopped and shouted.

"What?"

"They've  garble  warble  fashes!"  cried  Slartibartfast,  still
waving at them.

"He says," said Arthur, "that they've taken the  Ashes.  That  is
what I think he says." They ran on.

"The ...?" said Ford.
"Ashes," said Arthur tersely. "The burnt  remains  of  a  cricket
stump.  It's  a  trophy.  That  ..."  he  was  panting,  "is  ...
apparently ... what they ... have come and taken." He  shook  his
head very slightly as if he was trying to get his brain to settle
down lower in his skull.

"Strange thing to want to tell us," snapped Ford.

"Strange thing to take."

"Strange ship."

They had arrived at it. The second strangest thing about the ship
was  watching  the  Somebody  Else's  Problem field at work. They
could now clearly see the ship for what  it  was  simply  because
they  knew  it  was  there.  It was quite apparent, however, that
nobody else could. This wasn't because it was actually  invisible
or  anything  hyper-impossible like that. The technology involved
in making anything invisible is so infinitely complex  that  nine
hundred  and  ninety-nine  thousand  million,  nine  hundred  and
ninety-nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine thousand,  nine
hundred and ninety-nine times out of a billion it is much simpler
and more effective just to take the thing away and do without it.
The  ultra-famous  sciento-magician  Effrafax of Wug once bet his
life that, given a year, he could render the  great  megamountain
Magramal entirely invisible.

Having spent most of the year jiggling around with  immense  Lux-
O-Valves and Refracto-Nullifiers and Spectrum-Bypass-O-Matics, he
realized, with nine hours to go, that he wasn't going to make it.

So, he and  his  friends,  and  his  friends'  friends,  and  his
friends'  friends'  friends,  and  his friends' friends' friends'
friends, and some rather less good friends of theirs who happened
to  own  a  major  stellar  trucking  company, put in what now is
widely recognized as being the hardest night's work  in  history,
and,  sure  enough,  on the following day, Magramal was no longer
visible. Effrafax lost his bet - and therefore his life -  simply
because some pedantic adjudicating official noticed (a) that when
walking around the area that Magramal ought to be he didn't  trip
over  or break his nose on anything, and (b) a suspicious-looking
extra moon.

The Somebody Else's  Problem  field  is  much  simpler  and  more
effective, and what's more can be run for over a hundred years on
a single torch battery. This is because  it  relies  on  people's
natural  disposition  not  to  see  anything  they don't want to,
weren't expecting, or can't explain. If Effrafax had painted  the
mountain  pink  and  erected  a  cheap and simple Somebody Else's
Problem field on it, then  people  would  have  walked  past  the
mountain,  round  it, even over it, and simply never have noticed
that the thing was there.

And this is precisely what was  happening  with  Slartibartfast's
ship.  It  wasn't  pink, but if it had been, that would have been
the least of its visual problems and people were simply  ignoring
it like anything.

The most extraordinary thing about it was  that  it  looked  only
partly  like  a  spaceship with guidance fins, rocket engines and
escape hatches and so on, and a great deal like a  small  upended
Italian bistro.

Ford and Arthur  gazed  up  at  it  with  wonderment  and  deeply
offended sensibilities.

"Yes, I know," said Slartibartfast, hurrying up to them  at  that
point,  breathless and agitated, "but there is a reason. Come, we
must go. The ancient nightmare is come again. Doom  confronts  us
all. We must leave at once."

"I fancy somewhere sunny," said Ford.

Ford and Arthur followed Slartibartfast into the ship and were so
perplexed  by  what  they  saw  inside  it that they were totally
unaware of what happened next outside.

A spaceship, yet another one, but  this  one  sleek  and  silver,
descended  from  the  sky on to the pitch, quietly, without fuss,
its long legs unlocking in a smooth ballet of technology.

It landed gently. It extended a short  ramp.  A  tall  grey-green
figure  marched  briskly  out  and  approached  the small knot of
people who were gathered in the centre of the  pitch  tending  to
the  casualties  of  the recent bizarre massacre. It moved people
aside with quiet, understated authority, and came at  last  to  a
man  lying  in  a desperate pool of blood, clearly now beyond the
reach of any Earthly medicine, breathing, coughing his last.  The
figure knelt down quietly beside him.

"Arthur Philip Deodat?" asked the figure.

The man, with horrified confusion in eyes, nodded feebly.

"You're a no-good dumbo  nothing,"  whispered  the  creature.  "I
thought you should know that before you went."




Important facts from Galactic history, number two:

(Reproduced from the Siderial Daily Mentioner's Book  of  popular
Galactic History.)

Since this  Galaxy  began,  vast  civilizations  have  risen  and
fallen,  risen  and  fallen,  risen and fallen so often that it's
quite tempting to think that life in the Galaxy must be

(a) something akin to seasick - space-sick,  time  sick,  history
sick or some such thing, and

(b) stupid.




It seemed to Arthur as if the whole sky suddenly just stood aside
and let them through.

It seemed to him that the atoms of his brain and the atoms of the
cosmos were streaming through each other.

It seemed to him that he was blown on the wind of  the  Universe,
and that the wind was him.

It seemed to him that he was one of the thoughts of the  Universe
and that the Universe was a thought of his.

It seemed to the people at Lord's  Cricket  Ground  that  another
North  London  restaurant had just come and gone as they so often
do, and that this was Somebody Else's Problem.

"What happened?" whispered Arthur in considerable awe.

"We took off," said Slartibartfast.

Arthur lay in startled stillness on the  acceleration  couch.  He
wasn't   certain  whether  he  had  just  got  space-sickness  or
religion.

"Nice mover," said Ford in an unsuccessful  attempt  to  disguise
the   degree   to   which   he   had   been   impressed  by  what
Slartibartfast's ship had just done, "shame about the decor."

For a moment or two the old man didn't reply. He was  staring  at
the  instruments  with  the  air  of one who is trying to convert
fahrenheit to centigrade in his head whilst his house is  burning
down.  Then  his  brow  cleared and he stared for a moment at the
wide  panoramic  screen  in  front  of  him,  which  displayed  a
bewildering  complexity  of  stars  streaming like silver threads
around them.

His lips moved as if he was trying to spell  something.  Suddenly
his  eyes  darted  in alarm back to his instruments, but then his
expression merely subsided into a steady frown. He looked back up
at  the  screen.  He felt his own pulse. His frown deepened for a
moment, then he relaxed.

"It's a mistake to try  and  understand  mathematics,"  he  said,
"they only worry me. What did you say?"

"Decor," said Ford. "Pity about it."

"Deep in the  fundamental  heart  of  mind  and  Universe,"  said
Slartibartfast, "there is a reason."

Ford glanced sharply around. He clearly thought this  was  taking
an optimistic view of things.

The interior of the flight deck was dark green,  dark  red,  dark
brown,  cramped and moodily lit. Inexplicably, the resemblance to
a small Italian bistro had failed to end at the  hatchway.  Small
pools  of light picked out pot plants, glazed tiles and all sorts
of little unidentifiable brass things.

Rafia-wrapped bottles lurked hideously in the shadows.
The instruments which  had  occupied  Slartibartfast's  attention
seemed  to  be mounted in the bottom of bottles which were set in
concrete.

Ford reached out and touched it.

Fake concrete. Plastic. Fake bottles set in fake concrete.

The fundamental heart of mind and Universe  can  take  a  running
jump,  he thought to himself, this is rubbish. On the other hand,
it could not be denied that the way the ship had moved  made  the
Heart of Gold seem like an electric pram.

He swung himself off the  couch.  He  brushed  himself  down.  He
looked at Arthur who was singing quietly to himself. He looked at
the screen and recognized nothing. He looked at Slartibartfast.

"How far did we just travel?" he said.

"About ..." said Slartibartfast, "about two  thirds  of  the  way
across  the Galactic disc, I would say, roughly. Yes, roughly two
thirds, I think."

"It's a strange thing," said Arthur quietly,  "that  the  further
and  faster  one  travels  across  the  Universe,  the more one's
position in it seems to be largely immaterial, and one is  filled
with a profound, or rather emptied of a ..."

"Yes, very strange," said Ford. "Where are we going?"

"We are going," said  Slartibartfast,  "to  confront  an  ancient
nightmare of the Universe."

"And where are you going to drop us off?"

"I will need your help."

"Tough. Look, there's somewhere you can take us where we can have
fun, I'm trying to think of it, we can get drunk and maybe listen
to some extremely evil music. Hold on, I'll look it up."  He  dug
out  his copy of The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy and tipped
through those parts of the index primarily concerned with sex and
drugs and rock and roll.

"A curse has arisen from the mists of time," said Slartibartfast.

"Yes,  I  expect  so,"  said  Ford.  "Hey,"  he  said,   lighting
accidentally  on  one  particular  reference  entry,  "Eccentrica
Gallumbits, did you ever meet her? The triple-breasted  whore  of
Eroticon Six. Some people say her erogenous zones start some four
miles from her actual body. Me, I disagree, I say five."

"A curse," said Slartibartfast, "which will engulf the Galaxy  in
fire  and  destruction,  and  possibly  bring  the  Universe to a
premature doom. I mean it," he added.

"Sounds like a bad time," said Ford, "with  look  I'll  be  drunk
enough  not to notice. Here," he said, stabbing his finger at the
screen of the Guide, "would be a really wicked place to go, and I
think  we  should. What do you say, Arthur? Stop mumbling mantras
and pay attention. There's important stuff you're missing here."

Arthur pushed himself up from his couch and shook his head.

"Where are we going?" he said.

"To confront an ancient night-"

"Can it," said Ford. "Arthur, we are going out into the Galaxy to
have some fun. Is that an idea you can cope with?"

"What's Slartibartfast looking so anxious about?" said Arthur.

"Nothing," said Ford.

"Doom,"  said  Slartibartfast.  "Come,"  he  added,  with  sudden
authority, "there is much I must show and tell you."

He walked towards  a  green  wrought-iron  spiral  staircase  set
incomprehensibly  in the middle of the flight deck and started to
ascend. Arthur, with a frown, followed.

Ford slung the Guide sullenly back into his satchel.

"My doctor says that I have a malformed public-duty gland  and  a
natural  deficiency in moral fibre," he muttered to himself, "and
that I am therefore excused from saving Universes."

Nevertheless, he stomped up the stairs behind them.

What they found upstairs was just stupid, or so  it  seemed,  and
Ford  shook  his  head,  buried his face in his hands and slumped
against a pot plant, crushing it against the wall.

"The   central   computational   area,"    said    Slartibartfast
unperturbed,  "this is where every calculation affecting the ship
in any way is performed. Yes I know what it looks like, but it is
in  fact a complex four-dimensional topographical map of a series
of highly complex mathematical functions."

"It looks like a joke," said Arthur.

"I know what it looks like," said Slartibartfast, and  went  into
it.  As  he  did  so,  Arthur had a sudden vague flash of what it
might mean, but he refused to believe it. The Universe could  not
possibly  work  like  that, he thought, cannot possibly. That, he
thought to himself, would be as absurd as ... he terminated  that
line of thinking. Most of the really absurd things he could think
of had already happened.

And this was one of them.

It was a large glass cage, or box - in fact a room.

In it was a table, a long one. Around it were  gathered  about  a
dozen  chairs,  of the bentwood style. On it was a tablecloth - a
grubby,  red  and  white  check  tablecloth,  scarred  with   the
occasional   cigarette  burn,  each,  presumably,  at  a  precise
calculated mathematical position.

And on the tablecloth sat some half-eaten Italian  meals,  hedged
about with half-eaten breadsticks and half-drunk glasses of wine,
and toyed with listlessly by robots.

It was  all  completely  artificial.  The  robot  customers  were
attended  by  a  robot  waiter,  a  robot wine waiter and a robot
maetre  d'.  The  furniture  was   artificial,   the   tablecloth
artificial, and each particular piece of food was clearly capable
of exhibiting all the mechanical characteristics of, say, a pollo
sorpreso, without actually being one.

And all participated in a  little  dance  together  -  a  complex
routine  involving the manipulation of menus, bill pads, wallets,
cheque books, credit cards, watches, pencils and  paper  napkins,
which  seemed  to be hovering constantly on the edge of violence,
but never actually getting anywhere.

Slartibartfast hurried in, and then appeared to pass the time  of
day  quite  idly  with  the maetre d', whilst one of the customer
robots, an autorory, slid slowly under the table, mentioning what
he intended to do to some guy over some girl.

Slartibartfast took over the seat which had been thus vacated and
passed a shrewd eye over the menu. The tempo of the routine round
the table seemed  somehow  imperceptibly  to  quicken.  Arguments
broke  out,  people  attempted  to  prove things on napkins. They
waved fiercely at each  other,  and  attempted  to  examine  each
other's pieces of chicken. The waiter's hand began to move on the
bill pad more quickly than a human hand could  manage,  and  then
more quickly than a human eye could follow. The pace accelerated.
Soon, an extraordinary and insistent politeness  overwhelmed  the
group, and seconds later it seemed that a moment of consensus was
suddenly achieved. A new vibration thrilled through the ship.

Slartibartfast emerged from the glass room.

"Bistromathics," he said. "The most powerful computational  force
known   to   parascience.  Come  to  the  Room  of  Informational
Illusions."

He swept past and carried them bewildered in his wake.




The Bistromatic Drive is a wonderful new method of crossing  vast
interstellar  distances  without all that dangerous mucking about
with Improbability Factors.

Bistromathics  itself  is  simply  a  revolutionary  new  way  of
understanding the behaviour of numbers. Just as Einstein observed
that time was not an absolute  but  depended  on  the  observer's
movement  in  space,  and  that  space  was  not an absolute, but
depended on the  observer's  movement  in  time,  so  it  is  now
realized  that  numbers  are  not  absolute,  but  depend  on the
observer's movement in restaurants.
The first non-absolute number is the number of  people  for  whom
the  table  is  reserved. This will vary during the course of the
first three telephone calls to the restaurant, and then  bear  no
apparent  relation  to the number of people who actually turn up,
or to the number of people who subsequently join them  after  the
show/match/party/gig,  or  to the number of people who leave when
they see who else has turned up.

The second non-absolute number is  the  given  time  of  arrival,
which   is  now  known  to  be  one  of  those  most  bizarre  of
mathematical concepts,  a  recipriversexcluson,  a  number  whose
existence  can  only  be  defined  as  being  anything other than
itself. In other words, the given time  of  arrival  is  the  one
moment  of  time at which it is impossible that any member of the
party will arrive. Recipriversexclusons now play a vital part  in
many  branches of maths, including statistics and accountancy and
also form the basic  equations  used  to  engineer  the  Somebody
Else's Problem field.

The third and most mysterious piece of  non-absoluteness  of  all
lies in the relationship between the number of items on the bill,
the cost of each item, the number of people  at  the  table,  and
what they are each prepared to pay for. (The number of people who
have actually brought any money is only a sub-phenomenon in  this
field.)

The baffling discrepancies which used  to  occur  at  this  point
remained  uninvestigated for centuries simply because no one took
them seriously. They were at the time put down to such things  as
politeness,    rudeness,    meanness,    flashness,    tiredness,
emotionality,  or  the  lateness  of  the  hour,  and  completely
forgotten  about on the following morning. They were never tested
under  laboratory  conditions,  of  course,  because  they  never
occurred  in  laboratories  -  not  in  reputable laboratories at
least.

And so it was only with the advent of pocket computers  that  the
startling truth became finally apparent, and it was this:

Numbers written  on  restaurant  bills  within  the  confines  of
restaurants  do  not follow the same mathematical laws as numbers
written on any other pieces of paper in any other  parts  of  the
Universe.

This  single  fact  took  the  scientific  world  by  storm.   It
completely  revolutionized  it.  So many mathematical conferences
got held in such good restaurants that many of the  finest  minds
of a generation died of obesity and heart failure and the science
of maths was put back by years.

Slowly, however,  the  implications  of  the  idea  began  to  be
understood.  To  begin with it had been too stark, too crazy, too
much what the man in the street would have said, "Oh yes, I could
have  told  you that," about. Then some phrases like "Interactive
Subjectivity Frameworks" were invented, and everybody was able to
relax and get on with it.

The small groups of monks who had taken  up  hanging  around  the
major  research  institutes  singing strange chants to the effect
that the Universe was only a figment of its own imagination  were
eventually given a street theatre grant and went away.




"In space travel, you see," said Slartibartfast,  as  he  fiddled
with some instruments in the Room of Informational Illusions, "in
space travel ..."

He stopped and looked about him.

The Room of Informational Illusions was a  welcome  relief  after
the visual monstrosities of the central computational area. There
was nothing in it. No information, no illusions, just themselves,
white  walls  and a few small instruments which looked as if they
were meant to plug into something which  Slartibartfast  couldn't
find.

"Yes?" urged Arthur. He had picked up Slartibartfast's  sense  of
urgency but didn't know what to do with it.

"Yes what?" said the old man.

"You were saying?"

Slartibartfast looked at him sharply.

"The numbers," he said, "are awful." He resumed his search.

Arthur nodded wisely to himself. After a while he  realized  that
this  wasn't  getting  him anywhere and decided that he would say
"what?" after all.

"In space travel," repeated Slartibartfast, "all the numbers  are
awful."

Arthur nodded again and looked round to Ford for help,  but  Ford
was practising being sullen and getting quite good at it.

"I was only," said Slartibartfast with a sigh,  "trying  to  save
you the trouble of asking me why all the ship's computations were
being done on a waiter's bill pad."

Arthur frowned.

"Why," he said, "were all the ship's computations being done on a
wait-"

He stopped.

Slartibartfast said, "Because in space travel all the numbers are
awful."

He could tell that he wasn't getting his point across.

"Listen," he said. "On a waiter's bill  pad  numbers  dance.  You
must have encountered the phenomenon."
"Well ..."

"On a waiter's  bill  pad,"  said  Slartibartfast,  "reality  and
unreality  collide  on such a fundamental level that each becomes
the other and anything is possible, within certain parameters."

"What parameters?"

"It's impossible to say," said  Slartibartfast.  "That's  one  of
them.  Strange  but  true.  At  least,  I think it's strange," he
added, "and I'm assured that it's true."

At that moment he located the slot in the wall for which  he  had
been  searching,  and  clicked the instrument he was holding into
it.

"Do not be alarmed," he said, and then suddenly darted an alarmed
look at himself, and lunged back, "it's ..."

They didn't hear what he said, because at that  moment  the  ship
winked  out  of  existence  around them and a starbattle-ship the
size of a small Midlands  industrial  city  plunged  out  of  the
sundered night towards them, star lasers ablaze.

They gaped, pop-eyed, and were unable to scream.




Another world, another day, another dawn.

The early morning's thinnest sliver of light appeared silently.

Several billion trillion  tons  of  superhot  exploding  hydrogen
nuclei  rose  slowly above the horizon and managed to look small,
cold and slightly damp.

There is a moment in every dawn when light floats, there  is  the
possibility of magic. Creation holds its breath.

The moment passed as it regularly  did  on  Squornshellous  Zeta,
without incident.

The mist clung to the surface of the  marshes.  The  swamp  trees
were  grey with it, the tall reeds indistinct. It hung motionless
like held breath.

Nothing moved.

There was silence.

The sun struggled feebly with the mist, tried to impart a  little
warmth  here,  shed  a  little light there, but clearly today was
going to be just another long haul across the sky.

Nothing moved.

Again, silence.
Nothing moved.

Silence.

Very often on Squornshellous Zeta, whole days would  go  on  like
this, and this was indeed going to be one of them.

Fourteen hours later the sun sank hopelessly beneath the opposite
horizon with a sense of totally wasted effort.

And a few hours later it reappeared, squared  its  shoulders  and
started on up the sky again.

This time, however, something was happening. A mattress had  just
met a robot.

"Hello, robot," said the mattress.

"Bleah," said the robot and continued what it  was  doing,  which
was walking round very slowly in a very tiny circle.

"Happy?" said the mattress.

The robot stopped and looked at the mattress.  It  looked  at  it
quizzically.  It  was  clearly  a very stupid mattress. It looked
back at him with wide eyes.

After what it had calculated to ten significant decimal places as
being the precise length of pause most likely to convey a general
contempt for all things mattressy, the robot  continued  to  walk
round in tight circles.

"We could have a conversation," said  the  mattress,  "would  you
like that?"

It was a large mattress, and probably one of quite high  quality.
Very  few things actually get manufactured these days, because in
an infinitely large Universe such as, for instance,  the  one  in
which  we live, most things one could possibly imagine, and a lot
of things one would rather not,  grow  somewhere.  A  forest  was
discovered  recently  in  which  most  of  the trees grew ratchet
screwdrivers as fruit.  The life  cycle  of  ratchet  screwdriver
fruit  it  quite  interesting.  Once picked it needs a dark dusty
drawer in which it can lie undisturbed for years. Then one  night
it  suddenly hatches, discards its outer skin which crumbles into
dust, and emerges as a totally unidentifiable little metal object
with  flanges at both ends and a sort of ridge and a sort of hole
for a screw. This, when found, will get thrown away. No one knows
what  it  is  supposed to gain from this. Nature, in her infinite
wisdom, is presumably working on it.

No one really knows what mattresses are meant to gain from  their
lives  either.  They are large, friendly, pocket-sprung creatures
which live quiet private lives in the marshes  of  Squornshellous
Zeta.  Many  of  them get caught, slaughtered, dried out, shipped
out and slept on. None of them seem to mind and all of  them  are
called Zem.
"No," said Marvin.

"My name," said the mattress,  "is  Zem.  We  could  discuss  the
weather a little."

Marvin paused again in his weary circular plod.

"The dew," he observed, "has clearly fallen with  a  particularly
sickening thud this morning."

He resumed his  walk,  as  if  inspired  by  this  conversational
outburst  to  fresh  heights of gloom and despondency. He plodded
tenaciously. If he had had teeth he would have  gritted  them  at
this point. He hadn't. He didn't. The mere plod said it all.

The mattress flolloped around. This is a  thing  that  only  live
mattresses in swamps are able to do, which is why the word is not
in more common usage. It flolloped in a sympathetic  sort of way,
moving  a  fairish  body  of  water  as  it did so. It blew a few
bubbles up through the  water  engagingly.  Its  blue  and  white
stripes  glistened briefly in a sudden feeble ray of sun that had
unexpectedly made it through the mist, causing  the  creature  to
bask momentarily.

Marvin plodded.

"You have something on your mind, I  think,"  said  the  mattress
floopily.

"More  than  you  can  possibly  imagine,"  dreaded  Marvin.  "My
capacity  for mental activity of all kinds is as boundless as the
infinite reaches  of  space  itself.  Except  of  course  for  my
capacity for happiness."

Stomp, stomp, he went.

"My capacity for happiness," he added,  "you  could  fit  into  a
matchbox without taking out the matches first."

The mattress globbered. This is the noise made by a live,  swamp-
dwelling  mattress  that  is  deeply moved by a story of personal
tragedy. The word  can  also,  according  to  The  Ultra-Complete
Maximegalon  Dictionary  of  Every  Language Ever, mean the noise
made by the Lord High Sanvalvwag of Hollop on discovering that he
has  forgotten  his  wife's birthday for the second year running.
Since there was only ever one Lord High Sanvalvwag of Hollop, and
he  never  married,  the  word is only ever used in a negative or
speculative sense,  and  there  is  an  ever-increasing  body  of
opinion   which   holds   that   The  Ultra-Complete  Maximegalon
Dictionary is not worth the fleet of lorries it takes to cart its
microstored  edition  around in. Strangely enough, the dictionary
omits the word "floopily", which simply means "in the  manner  of
something which is floopy".

The mattress globbered again.

"I sense a deep dejection in your diodes," it  vollued  (for  the
meaning  of  the  word  "vollue",  buy  a  copy of Squornshellous
Swamptalk at any remaindered bookshop, or alternatively  buy  The
Ultra-Complete  Maximegalon Dictionary, as the University will be
very glad to get it off their  hands  and  regain  some  valuable
parking   lots),   "and   it  saddens  me.  You  should  be  more
mattresslike. We live quiet retired lives in the swamp, where  we
are  content  to  flollop  and vollue and regard the wetness in a
fairly floopy manner. Some of us are killed, but all  of  us  are
called Zem, so we never know which and globbering is thus kept to
a minimum. Why are you walking in circles?"

"Because my leg is stuck," said Marvin simply.

"It seems to me," said the mattress  eyeing  it  compassionately,
"that it is a pretty poor sort of leg."

"You are right," said Marvin, "it is."

"Voon," said the mattress.

"I expect so," said Marvin, "and I also expect that you find  the
idea of a robot with an artificial leg pretty amusing. You should
tell your friends Zem and Zem when you see  them  later;  they'll
laugh,  if  I know them, which I don't of course - except insofar
as I know all organic life forms, which is  much  better  than  I
would wish to. Ha, but my life is but a box of wormgears."

He stomped around again in his tiny circle, around his thin steel
peg-leg which revolved in the mud but seemed otherwise stuck.

"But why do you just keep walking  round  and  round?"  said  the
mattress.

"Just to make the point," said Marvin, and continued,  round  and
round.

"Consider it  made,  my  dear  friend,"  flurbled  the  mattress,
"consider it made."

"Just another million years," said Marvin,  "just  another  quick
million. Then I might try it backwards. Just for the variety, you
understand."

The mattress could feel deep in his innermost spring pockets that
the robot dearly wished to be asked how long he had been trudging
in this futile and  fruitless  manner,  and  with  another  quiet
flurble he did so.

"Oh, just over the one-point-five-million mark, just over,"  said
Marvin airily. "Ask me if I ever get bored, go on, ask me."

The mattress did.

Marvin  ignored  the  question,  he  merely  trudged  with  added
emphasis.

"I  gave  a  speech  once,"  he  said  suddenly,  and  apparently
unconnectedly. "You may not instantly see why I bring the subject
up, but that is because my mind works so phenomenally fast, and I
am at a rough estimate thirty billion times more intelligent than
you. Let me give you an example. Think of a number, any number."
"Er, five," said the mattress.

"Wrong," said Marvin. "You see?"

The mattress was much impressed by this and realized that it  was
in  the  presence  of a not unremarkable mind. It willomied along
its entire length, sending excited  little  ripples  through  its
shallow algae-covered pool.

It gupped.

"Tell me," it urged, "of the speech you once made, I long to hear
it."

"It was received very badly," said  Marvin,  "for  a  variety  of
reasons.  I  delivered  it," he added, pausing to make an awkward
humping sort of gesture with his not-exactly-good  arm,  but  his
arm which was better than the other one which was dishearteningly
welded to his left side, "over there, about a mile distance."

He was pointing as well as he  could  manage,  and  he  obviously
wanted to make it totally clear that this was as well as he could
manage, through the mist, over the reeds, to a part of the  marsh
which looked exactly the same as every other part of the marsh.

"There," he repeated. "I was  somewhat  of  a  celebrity  at  the
time."

Excitement gripped the mattress. It had never heard  of  speeches
being  delivered  on  Squornshellous  Zeta,  and certainly not by
celebrities. Water spattered off it as a thrill  glurried  across
its back.

It did something which  mattresses  very  rarely  bother  to  do.
Summoning  every  bit of its strength, it reared its oblong body,
heaved it up into the air and held it quivering there for  a  few
seconds  whilst  it peered through the mist over the reeds at the
part of the marsh which Marvin had indicated, observing,  without
disappointment,  that it was exactly the same as every other part
of the marsh. The effort was too much, and it flodged  back  into
its pool, deluging Marvin with smelly mud, moss and weeds.

"I was a celebrity," droned the robot sadly, "for a  short  while
on  account  of my miraculous and bitterly resented escape from a
fate almost as good as death in the heart of a blazing  sun.  You
can  guess  from  my  condition," he added, "how narrow my escape
was. I was rescued by a scrap-metal merchant, imagine that.  Here
I am, brain the size of ... never mind."

He trudged savagely for a few seconds.

"He it was who fixed me up with this leg. Hateful, isn't  it?  He
sold  me to a Mind Zoo. I was the star exhibit. I had to sit on a
box and tell my story whilst people told me to cheer up and think
positive. `Give us a grin, little robot,' they would shout at me,
`give us a little chuckle.' I would explain to them that  to  get
my  face  to  grin wold take a good couple of hours in a workshop
with a wrench, and that went down very well."
"The speech," urged the mattress. "I long to hear of  the  speech
you gave in the marshes."

"There was a bridge built across the marshes.  A  cyberstructured
hyperbridge,  hundreds  of  miles in length, to carry ion-buggies
and freighters over the swamp."

"A bridge?" quirruled the mattress. "Here in the swamp?"

"A bridge," confirmed Marvin, "here in the swamp. It was going to
revitalize  the  economy of the Squornshellous System. They spent
the entire economy of the Squornshellous System building it. They
asked me to open it. Poor fools."

It began to rain a little, a fine spray slid through the mist.

"I stood on the platform. For hundreds of miles in front  of  me,
and hundreds of miles behind me, the bridge stretched."

"Did it glitter?" enthused the mattress.

"It glittered."

"Did it span the miles majestically?"

"It spanned the miles majestically."

"Did it stretch like a silver thread far out into  the  invisible
mist?"

"Yes," said Marvin. "Do you want to hear this story?"

"I want to hear your speech," said the mattress.

"This is what I said. I said, `I would like to say that it  is  a
very  great  pleasure,  honour  and privilege for me to open this
bridge, but I can't because my lying  circuits  are  all  out  of
commission.  I  hate  and  despise  you  all.  I now declare this
hapless cyberstructure open to the unthinkable abuse of  all  who
wantonly  cross  her.'  And  I  plugged  myself  into the opening
circuits."

Marvin paused, remembering the moment.

The mattress flurred  and  glurried.  It  flolloped,  gupped  and
willomied, doing this last in a particularly floopy way.

"Voon," it wurfed at last. "And it was a magnificent occasion?"

"Reasonably magnificent.  The  entire  thousand-mile-long  bridge
spontaneously  folded  up  its  glittering spans and sank weeping
into the mire, taking everybody with it."

There was  a  sad  and  terrible  pause  at  this  point  in  the
conversation  during  which  a  hundred  thousand  people  seemed
unexpectedly to say "wop" and a team of  white  robots  descended
from  the  sky like dandelion seeds drifting on the wind in tight
military formation. For a sudden violent  moment  they  were  all
there,  in  the swamp, wrenching Marvin's false leg off, and then
they were gone again in their ship, which said "foop".

"You see the sort of thing I have to contend with?"  said  Marvin
to the gobbering mattress.

Suddenly, a moment later, the robots were back again for  another
violent  incident, and this time when they left, the mattress was
alone in the swamp.  He  flolloped  around  in  astonishment  and
alarm.  He  almost lurgled in fear. He reared himself to see over
the reeds, but there was nothing to  see,  just  more  reeds.  He
listened,  but  there  was  no  sound  on the wind beyond the now
familiar sound of half-crazed etymologists calling  distantly  to
each other across the sullen mire.




The body of Arthur Dent span.

The Universe shattered into a million glittering fragments around
it,  and  each  particular  shard span silently through the void,
reflecting on its silver surface some single searing holocaust of
fire and destruction.

And then the blackness behind the  Universe  exploded,  and  each
particular piece of blackness was the furious smoke of hell.

And the nothingness behind  the  blackness  behind  the  Universe
erupted,  and  behind the nothingness behind the blackness behind
the shattered Universe was at last the dark figure of an  immense
man speaking immense words.

"These, then,"  said  the  figure,  speaking  from  an  immensely
comfortable   chair,   "were   the  Krikkit  Wars,  the  greatest
devastation  ever  visited  upon  our  Galaxy.  What   you   have
experienced ..."

Slartibartfast floated past, waving.

"It's just a documentary," he called out. "This  is  not  a  good
bit. Terribly sorry, trying to find the rewind control ..."

"... is what billions of billions of innocent ..."

"Do not," called out  Slartibartfast  floating  past  again,  and
fiddling furiously with the thing that he had stuck into the wall
of the Room of Informational Illusions  and  which  was  in  fact
still stuck there, "agree to buy anything at this point."

"... people, creatures, your fellow beings ..."

Music swelled - again, it was immense music, immense chords.  And
behind the man, slowly, three tall pillars began to emerge out of
the immensely swirling mist.

"... experienced, lived through - or, more often, failed to  live
through.  Think  of that, my friends. And let us not forget - and
in just a moment I shall be able to suggest a way which will help
us  always to remember - that before the Krikkit Wars, the Galaxy
was that rare and wonderful thing a happy Galaxy!"

The music was going bananas with immensity at this point.

"A Happy Galaxy, my friends, as represented by the symbol of  the
Wikkit Gate!"

The three pillars stood out clearly  now,  three  pillars  topped
with two cross pieces in a way which looked stupefyingly familiar
to Arthur's addled brain.

"The three pillars," thundered the man. "The Steel  Pillar  which
represented the Strength and Power of the Galaxy!"

Searchlights seared out and danced crazy dances up and  down  the
pillar on the left which was, clearly, made of steel or something
very like it. The music thumped and bellowed.

"The Perspex Pillar," announced the man, "representing the forces
of Science and Reason in the Galaxy!"

Other searchlights played exotically up and down  the  righthand,
transparent  pillar  creating  dazzling  patterns within it and a
sudden inexplicable craving  for  ice-cream  in  the  stomach  of
Arthur Dent.

"And,"  the  thunderous  voice  continued,  "the  Wooden  Pillar,
representing  ..."  and  here his voice became just very slightly
hoarse with wonderful  sentiments,  "the  forces  of  Nature  and
Spirituality."

The lights picked out the central pillar. The music moved bravely
up into the realms of complete unspeakability.

"Between them supporting," the voice rolled on,  approaching  its
climax,  "the  Golden  Bail  of Prosperity and the Silver Bail of
Peace!"

The whole structure was now flooded with dazzling lights, and the
music  had  now,  fortunately,  gone far beyond the limits of the
discernible. At the top of the three pillars the two  brilliantly
gleaming  bails sat and dazzled. There seemed to be girls sitting
on top of them, or maybe they were meant to be angels. Angels are
usually represented as wearing more than that, though.

Suddenly there was a dramatic hush in what was  presumably  meant
to be the Cosmos, and a darkening of the lights.

"There is not a world," thrilled the man's expert voice,  "not  a
civilized  world  in  the Galaxy where this symbol is not revered
even today. Even  in  primitive  worlds  it  persists  in  racial
memories.  This  it was that the forces of Krikkit destroyed, and
this it is that now locks  their  world  away  till  the  end  of
eternity!"

And with a flourish, the man produced in his hands a model of the
Wikkit  gate.  Scale  was  terribly  hard  to judge in this whole
extraordinary spectacle, but the model looked as if it must  have
been about three feet high.

"Not the original key, of course. That, as  everyone  knows,  was
destroyed,  blasted  into  the ever-whirling eddies of the space-
time continuum and lost for ever. This is a  remarkable  replica,
hand-tooled   by  skilled  craftsmen,  lovingly  assembled  using
ancient craft secrets into a memento you will be proud to own, in
memory  of  those  who  fell,  and in tribute to the Galaxy - our
Galaxy - which they died to defend ..."

Slartibartfast floated past again at this moment.

"Found it," he said. "We can lose all this  rubbish.  Just  don't
nod, that's all."

"Now, let us bow our heads in payment," intoned  the  voice,  and
then said it again, much faster and backwards.

Lights came and went, the pillars  disappeared,  the  man  gabled
himself backwards into nothing, the Universe snappily reassembled
itself around them.

"You get the gist?" said Slartibartfast.

"I'm astonished," said Arthur, "and bewildered."

"I was asleep," said Ford, who floated into view at  this  point.
"Did I miss anything?"

They found themselves once again teetering rather rapidly on  the
edge  of  an  agonizingly  high  cliff. The wind whipped out from
their faces and across a bay on which the remains of one  of  the
greatest  and most powerful space battle-fleets ever assembled in
the Galaxy was briskly burning itself back  into  existence.  The
sky  was  a sullen pink, darkening via a rather curious colour to
blue and upwards to black. Smoke billowed down out of  it  at  an
incredible lick.

Events were now passing back by them almost  too  quickly  to  be
distinguished,  and when, a short while later, a huge starbattle-
ship rushed away from them as if they'd  said  "boo",  they  only
just recognized it as the point at which they had come in.

But now things were too rapid, a video-tactile blur which brushed
and  jiggled them through centuries of galactic history, turning,
twisting, flickering. The sound was a mere thin thrill.

Periodically through the thickening jumble of events they  sensed
appalling  catastrophes,  deep  horrors,  cataclysmic shocks, and
these were always associated with certain recurring  images,  the
only  images  which  ever  stood out clearly from the avalance of
tumbling history: a wicket gate, a  small  hard  red  ball,  hard
white  robots,  and  also something less distinct, something dark
and cloudy.

But there was also another sensation which rose  clearly  out  of
the thrilling passage of time.

Just as a slow series of clicks when speeded  up  will  lose  the
definition  of  each  individual  click and gradually take on the
quality of a sustained and rising tone, so a series of individual
impressions here took on the quality of a sustained emotion - and
yet not an emotion. If it  was  an  emotion,  it  was  a  totally
emotionless  one.  It was hatred, implacable hatred. It was cold,
not like ice is cold, but like a wall is cold. It was impersonal,
not as a randomly flung fist in a crowd is impersonal, but like a
computer-issued parking summons is impersonal. And it was  deadly
- again, not like a bullet or a knife is deadly, but like a brick
wall across a motorway is deadly.

And just as a rising tone will change in character  and  take  on
harmonics  as it rises, so again, this emotionless emotion seemed
to rise to an unbearable if unheard scream and suddenly seemed to
be a scream of guilt and failure.

And suddenly it stopped.

They were left standing on a quiet hilltop on a tranquil evening.

The sun was setting.

All around them softly undulating green  countryside  rolled  off
gently  into  the distance. Birds sang about what they thought of
it all, and the general opinion seemed to be good. A  little  way
away  could  be heard the sound of children playing, and a little
further away than the apparent source of that sound could be seen
in the dimming evening light the outlines of a small town.

The town appeared to consist mostly of fairly low buildings  made
of white stone. The skyline was of gentle pleasing curves.

The sun had nearly set.

As if out of nowhere, music began.  Slartibartfast  tugged  at  a
switch and it stopped.

A voice said, "This ..." Slartibartfast tugged at a switch and it
stopped.

"I will tell you about it," he said quietly.

The place was peaceful.  Arthur  felt  happy.  Even  Ford  seemed
cheerful.  They  walked a short way in the direction of the town,
and the Informational Illusion of  the  grass  was  pleasant  and
springy  under  their feet, and the Informational Illusion of the
flowers smelt sweet  and  fragrant.  Only  Slartibartfast  seemed
apprehensive and out of sorts.

He stopped and looked up.

It suddenly occurred to Arthur that, coming as this  did  at  the
end,  so to speak, or rather the beginning of all the horror they
had just blurredly experienced, something nasty must be about  to
happen.  He  was  distressed  to think that something nasty could
happen to somewhere as idyllic as this. He too glanced up.  There
was nothing in the sky.

"They're not about  to  attack  here,  are  they?"  he  said.  He
realized that this was merely a recording he was walking through,
but he still felt alarmed.

"Nothing is about to attack here," said Slartibartfast in a voice
which  unexpectedly  trembled with emotion. "This is where it all
started. This is the place itself. This is Krikkit."

He stared up into the sky.

The sky, from one horizon to another, from  east  to  west,  from
north to south, was utterly and completely black.




Stomp stomp.

Whirrr.

"Pleased to be of service."

"Shut up."

"Thank you."

Stomp stomp stomp stomp stomp.

Whirrr.

"Thank you for making a simple door very happy."

"Hope your diodes rot."

"Thank you. Have a nice day."

Stomp stomp stomp stomp.

Whirrr.

"It is my pleasure to open for you ..."

"Zark off."

"... and my satisfaction to close again with the knowledge  of  a
job well done."

"I said zark off."

"Thank you for listening to this message."

Stomp stomp stomp stomp.

"Wop."

Zaphod stopped stomping. He had been stomping around the Heart of
Gold  for  days, and so far no door had said "wop" to him. He was
fairly certain that no door had said "wop" to him now. It was not
the  sort  of  thing  doors said. Too concise. Furthermore, there
were not enough doors. It sounded as if a hundred thousand people
had  said "wop", which puzzled him because he was the only person
on the ship.

It was dark. Most of the ship's non-essential systems were closed
down. It was drifting in a remote area of the Galaxy, deep in the
inky blackness of space. So  which  particular  hundred  thousand
people  would  turn up at this point and say a totally unexpected
"wop"?

He looked about him, up the corridor and down  the  corridor.  It
was  all  in  deep  shadow.  There were just the very dim pinkish
outlines of the  doors  which  glowed  in  the  dark  and  pulsed
whenever they spoke, though he had tried every way he could think
of of stopping them.

The lights were off so that his heads could avoid looking at each
other,  because  neither  of  them  was  currently a particularly
engaging sight, and nor had they been since he had made the error
of looking into his soul.

It had indeed been an error. It had been  late  one  night  -  of
course.

It had been a difficult day - of course.

There had been soulful music playing on the ship's sound system -
of course.

And he had, of course, been slightly drunk.

In other words, all the usual conditions which bring on a bout of
soul-searching  had  applied,  but  it had, nevertheless, clearly
been an error.

Standing now, silent and alone in the dark corridor he remembered
the  moment  and  shivered.  His  one head looked one way and his
other the other and each decided that the other was  the  way  to
go.

He listened but could hear nothing.

All there had been was the "wop".

It seemed an awfully long way to bring an awfully large number of
people just to say one word.

He started nervously to edge his way  in  the  direction  of  the
bridge.  There  at  least  he  would  feel in control. He stopped
again. The way he was feeling he didn't think he was  an  awfully
good person to be in control.

The  first  shock  of  that  moment,  thinking  back,  had   been
discovering that he actually had a soul.

In fact he'd always more or less assumed that he had  one  as  he
had  a  full  complement  of  everything  else, and indeed two of
somethings, but suddenly actually to encounter the thing  lurking
there deep within him had giving him a severe jolt.
And then to discover (this was the second shock) that  it  wasn't
the  totally wonderful object which he felt a man in his position
had a natural right to expect had jolted him again.

Then he had thought about what his position actually was and  the
renewed  shock had nearly made him spill his drink. He drained it
quickly before anything serious  happened  to  it.  He  then  had
another  quick one to follow the first one down and check that it
was all right.

"Freedom," he said aloud.

Trillian came on to the bridge at that  point  and  said  several
enthusiastic things on the subject of freedom.

"I can't cope with it," he said darkly, and sent  a  third  drink
down  to  see why the second hadn't yet reported on the condition
of the first. He looked uncertainly at both of her and  preferred
the one on the right.

He poured a drink down his other throat with  the  plan  that  it
would head the previous one off at the pass, join forces with it,
and together they would get the second to pull  itself  together.
Then  all  three  would  go off in search of the first, give it a
good talking to and maybe a bit of a sing as well.

He felt uncertain as to whether the fourth drink  had  understood
all  that, so he sent down a fifth to explain the plan more fully
and a sixth for moral support.

"You're drinking too much," said Trillian.

His heads collided trying to sort out the four of  her  he  could
now  see  into  a  whole  position.  He gave up and looked at the
navigation screen and was astonished to see  a  quite  phenomenal
number of stars.

"Excitement and adventure and really wild things," he muttered.

"Look," she said in a sympathetic tone of  voice,  and  sat  down
near  him, "it's quite understandable that you're going to feel a
little aimless for a bit."

He boggled at her. He had never seen anyone sit on their own  lap
before.

"Wow," he said. He had another drink.

"You've finished the mission you've been on for years."

"I haven't been on it. I've tried to avoid being on it."

"You've still finished it."

He grunted. There seemed to be a terrific party going on  in  his
stomach.

"I think it finished me," he said. "Here I am, Zaphod Beeblebrox,
I  can  go anywhere, do anything. I have the greatest ship in the
know sky, a girl with whom things seem to be working  out  pretty
well ..."

"Are they?"

"As far as I can tell I'm not an expert in personal relationships
..."

Trillian raised her eyebrows.

"I am," he added, "one hell of a guy, I can do  anything  I  want
only I just don't have the faintest idea what."

He paused.

"One thing," he further added, "has suddenly ceased  to  lead  to
another"  -  in  contradiction  of which he had another drink and
slid gracelessly off his chair.

Whilst he slept it off, Trillian did a  little  research  in  the
ship's copy of The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy. It had some
advice to offer on drunkenness.

"Go to it," it said, "and good luck."

It was cross-referenced to the entry concerning the size  of  the
Universe and ways of coping with that.

Then she found the entry on Han Wavel, an exotic holiday  planet,
and one of the wonders of the Galaxy.

Han Wavel is a world which consists largely  of  fabulous  ultra-
luxury  hotels  and casinos, all of which have been formed by the
natural erosion of wind and rain.

The chances of this happening are more or less  one  to  infinity
against.  Little  is known of how this came about because none of
the geophysicists, probability statisticians,  meteoranalysts  or
bizzarrologists who are so keen to research it can afford to stay
there.

Terrific, thought Trillian to herself, and within a few hours the
great white running-shoe ship was slowly powering down out of the
sky beneath a hot brilliant sun towards a brightly coloured sandy
spaceport.  The  ship  was  clearly  causing  a  sensation on the
ground, and Trillian  was  enjoying  herself.  She  heard  Zaphod
moving around and whistling somewhere in the ship.

"How are you?" she said over the general intercom.

"Fine," he said brightly, "terribly well."

"Where are you?"

"In the bathroom."

"What are you doing?"

"Staying here."
After an hour or two it became plain that he  meant  it  and  the
ship returned to the sky without having once opened its hatchway.

"Heigh ho," said Eddie the Computer.

Trillian nodded patiently, tapped her fingers a couple  of  times
and pushed the intercom switch.

"I think that enforced fun is probably not what you need at  this
point."

"Probably not," replied Zaphod from wherever he was.

"I think a bit of physical challenge would help draw you  out  of
yourself."

"Whatever you think, I think," said Zaphod.

"Recreational  Impossibilities"  was  a  heading   which   caught
Trillian's  eye  when,  a short while later, she sat down to flip
through the Guide again, and as  the  Heart  of  Gold  rushed  at
improbable speeds in an indeterminate direction, she sipped a cup
of something undrinkable from the Nutrimatic Drink Dispenser  and
read about how to fly.

The Hitch Hiker's Guide to the Galaxy has  this  to  say  on  the
subject of flying.

There is an art, it says, or rather a knack to flying.

The knack lies in learning how to throw yourself  at  the  ground
and miss.

Pick a nice day, it suggests, and try it.

The first part is easy.

All it requires is simply the ability to throw  yourself  forward
with  all  your weight, and the willingness not to mind that it's
going to hurt.

That is, it's going to hurt if you fail to miss the ground.

Most people fail to miss the  ground,  and  if  they  are  really
trying properly, the likelihood is that they will fail to miss it
fairly hard.

Clearly, it's the second point, the missing, which  presents  the
difficulties.

One problem is that you have to  miss  the  ground  accidentally.
It's  no  good  deliberately intending to miss the ground because
you won't. You have to have your attention suddenly distracted by
something  else  when  you're  halfway  there, so that you are no
longer thinking about falling, or about the ground, or about  how
much it's going to hurt if you fail to miss it.

It is notoriously difficult to prise  your  attention  away  from
these  three  things  during  the  split  second you have at your
disposal.  Hence  most  people's  failure,  and  their   eventual
disillusionment with this exhilarating and spectacular sport.

If,  however,  you  are  lucky  enough  to  have  your  attention
momentarily  distracted at the crucial moment by, say, a gorgeous
pair of legs (tentacles, pseudopodia, according to phyllum and/or
personal inclination) or a bomb going off in your vicinity, or by
suddenly spotting an extremely rare species  of  beetle  crawling
along  a nearby twig, then in your astonishment you will miss the
ground completely and remain bobbing just a few inches  above  it
in what might seem to be a slightly foolish manner.

This is a moment for superb and delicate concentration.

Bob and float, float and bob.

Ignore all considerations of  your  own  weight  and  simply  let
yourself waft higher.

Do not listen to what anybody says to you at this  point  because
they are unlikely to say anything helpful.

They are most likely to say something along the lines  of,  "Good
God, you can't possibly be flying!"

It is vitally important not to believe them or they will suddenly
be right.

Waft higher and higher.

Try a few swoops, gentle ones at  first,  then  drift  above  the
treetops breathing regularly.

Do not wave at anybody.

When you have done this a few times you will find the  moment  of
distraction rapidly becomes easier and easier to achieve.

You will then learn all sorts of things about how to control your
flight,  your  speed, your manoeuvrability, and the trick usually
lies in not thinking too hard about whatever you want to do,  but
just allowing it to happen as if it was going to anyway.

You will also learn how to land properly, which is something  you
will  almost  certainly cock up, and cock up badly, on your first
attempt.

There are private flying  clubs  you  can  join  which  help  you
achieve the all-important moment of distraction. They hire people
with surprising bodies or opinions to leap out from behind bushes
and  exhibit  and/or  explain  them  at  the crucial moments. Few
genuine hitch-hikers will be able to afford to join these  clubs,
but some may be able to get temporary employment at them.

Trillian read this longingly, but reluctantly decided that Zaphod
wasn't  really  in the right frame of mind for attempting to fly,
or for walking  through  mountains  or  for  trying  to  get  the
Brantisvogan  Civil  Service  to  acknowledge a change-of-address
card, which were  the  other  things  listed  under  the  heading
"Recreational Impossibilities".

Instead, she flew the ship to Allosimanius  Syneca,  a  world  of
ice,  snow, mind-hurtling beauty and stunning cold. The trek from
the snow plains of  Liska  to  the  summit  of  the  Ice  Crystal
Pyramids  of  Sastantua is long and gruelling, even with jet skis
and a team of Syneca Snowhounds, but the view  from  the  top,  a
view which takes in the Stin Glacier Fields, the shimmering Prism
Mountains and the far ethereal dancing icelights,  is  one  which
first  freezes  the  mind and then slowly releases it to hitherto
unexperienced horizons of beauty, and  Trillian,  for  one,  felt
that  she  could do with a bit of having her mind slowly released
to hitherto unexperienced horizons of beauty.

They went into a low orbit.

There lay the silverwhite beauty of Allosimanius  Syneca  beneath
them.

Zaphod stayed in bed with one head stuck under a pillow  and  the
other doing crosswords till late into the night.

Trillian nodded patiently again, counted to a  sufficiently  high
number, and told herself that the important thing now was just to
get Zaphod talking.

She prepared, by dint  of  deactivating  all  the  robot  kitchen
synthomatics,  the  most  fabulously  delicious  meal  she  could
contrive -  delicately  oiled  meals,  scented  fruits,  fragrant
cheeses, fine Aldebaran wines.

She carried it through to him and asked if he felt  like  talking
things through.

"Zark off," said Zaphod.

Trillian nodded patiently to herself, counted to an  even  higher
number,  tossed  the  tray lightly aside, walked to the transport
room and just teleported herself the hell out of his life.

She  didn't  even  programme  any  coordinates,  she  hadn't  the
faintest  idea  where she was going, she just went - a random row
of dots flowing through the Universe.

"Anything," she said to herself as  she  left,  "is  better  than
this."

"Good job too," muttered  Zaphod  to  himself,  turned  over  and
failed to go to sleep.

The next day he restlessly paced the empty corridors of the ship,
pretending  not to look for her, though he knew she wasn't there.
He ignored the computer's querulous demands to know just what the
hell  was  going on around here by fitting a small electronic gag
across a pair of its terminals.

After a while he began to turn down the lights. There was nothing
to see. Nothing was about to happen.
Lying in bed one night - and night was now  virtually  continuous
on  the ship - he decided to pull himself together, to get things
into some kind of perspective. He sat up sharply and  started  to
pull  clothes  on.  He  decided that there must be someone in the
Universe feeling  more  wretched,  miserable  and  forsaken  than
himself, and he determined to set out and find him.

Halfway to the bridge it occurred to him that it might be Marvin,
and he returned to bed.

It was a few hours later than this, as he stomped  disconsolately
about  the darkened corridors swearing at cheerful doors, that he
heard the "wop" said, and it made him very nervous.

He leant tensely against the corridor wall and frowned like a man
trying  to  unbend  a  corkscrew  by  telekinesis.  He  laid  his
fingertips against the wall and felt an  unusual  vibration.  And
now  he  could  quite  clearly hear slight noises, and could hear
where they were coming from - they were coming from the bridge.

"Computer?" he hissed.

"Mmmm?" said the computer terminal nearest him, equally quietly.

"Is there someone on this ship?"

"Mmmmm," said the computer.

"Who is it?"

Mmmmm mmm mmmmm," said the computer.

"What?"

"Mmmmm mmmm mm mmmmmmmm."

Zaphod buried one of his faces in two of his hands.

"Oh, Zarquon," he muttered to himself.  Then  he  stared  up  the
corridor  towards  the entrance to the bridge in the dim distance
from which more and purposeful noises were coming, and  in  which
the gagged terminals were situated.

"Computer," he hissed again.

"Mmmmm?"

"When I ungag you ..."

"Mmmmm."

"Remind me to punch myself in the mouth."

"Mmmmm mmm?"

"Either one. Now just tell me this. One for yes, two for  no.  Is
it dangerous?"
"Mmmmm."

"It is?"

"Mmmm."

"You didn't just go `mmmm' twice?"

"Mmmm mmmm."

"Hmmmm."

He inched his way up the  corridor  as  if  he  would  rather  be
yarding his way down it, which was true.

He was within two yards  of  the  door  to  the  bridge  when  he
suddenly  realized  to his horror that it was going to be nice to
him, and he stopped dead. He hadn't been able  to  turn  off  the
doors' courtesy voice circuits.

This doorway to the bridge was  concealed  from  view  within  it
because of the excitingly chunky way in which the bridge had been
designed to  curve  round,  and  he  had  been  hoping  to  enter
unobserved.

He leant despondently back against the wall again and  said  some
words which his other head was quite shocked to hear.

He peered at the dim pink outline of  the  door,  and  discovered
that in the darkness of the corridor he could just about make out
the Sensor Field which extended out into the  corridor  and  told
the  door  when there was someone there for whom it must open and
to whom it must make a cheery and pleasant remark.

He pressed himself hard back against the wall and  edged  himself
towards  the  door,  flattening  his chest as much as he possibly
could to avoid brushing against the very, very dim  perimeter  of
the  field.  He  held  his  breath,  and congratulated himself on
having lain in bed sulking for the  last  few  days  rather  than
trying  to work out his feelings on chest expanders in the ship's
gym.

He then realized he was going to have to speak at this point.

He took a series of  very  shallow  breaths,  and  then  said  as
quickly  and  as  quietly as he could, "Door, if you can hear me,
say so very, very quietly."

Very, very quietly, the door murmured, "I can hear you."

"Good. Now, in a moment, I'm going to ask you to open.  When  you
open I do not want you to say that you enjoyed it, OK?"

"OK."

"And I don't want you to say to me that I have made a simple door
very  happy,  or that it is your pleasure to open for me and your
satisfaction to close again with the  knowledge  of  a  job  well
done, OK?"
"OK."

"And I do not want you to ask me to have a nice day, understand?"

"I understand."

"OK," said Zaphod, tensing himself, "open now."

The door slid open quietly. Zaphod slipped quietly  through.  The
door closed quietly behind him.

"Is that the way you like it, Mr Beeblebrox?" said the  door  out
loud.

"I want you to imagine," said Zaphod to the group of white robots
who  swung  round  to stare at him at that point, "that I have an
extremely powerful Kill-O-Zap blaster pistol in my hand."

There was an  immensely  cold  and  savage  silence.  The  robots
regarded  him  with  hideously  dead eyes. They stood very still.
There was something intensely  macabre  about  their  appearance,
especially  to Zaphod who had never seen one before or even known
anything about them. The Krikkit Wars  belonged  to  the  ancient
past  of  the  Galaxy,  and  Zaphod  had  spent most of his early
history lessons plotting how he was going to have  sex  with  the
girl  in  the  cybercubicle  next  to him, and since his teaching
computer had been an integral part of this plot it had eventually
had  all its history circuits wiped and replaced with an entirely
different set of ideas  which  had  then  resulted  in  it  being
scrapped  and sent to a home for Degenerate Cybermats, whither it
was followed by the girl who had inadvertently fallen  deeply  in
love  with  the  unfortunate  machine,  with  the result (a) that
Zaphod never got near her and (b) that he missed out on a  period
of  ancient  history that would have been of inestimable value to
him at this moment.

He stared at them in shock.

It was impossible to explain why,  but  their  smooth  and  sleek
white bodies seemed to be the utter embodiment of clean, clinical
evil. From their hideously dead eyes to their  powerful  lifeless
feet,  they  were  clearly  the calculated product of a mind that
wanted simply to kill. Zaphod gulped in cold fear.

They had been dismantling part of the rear bridge wall,  and  had
forced  a  passage through some of the vital innards of the ship.
Through the tangled wreckage Zaphod could see, with a further and
worse  sense of shock, that they were tunnelling towards the very
heart of the ship, the heart of the Improbability Drive that  had
been  so  mysteriously created out of thin air, the Heart of Gold
itself.

The robot closest to him was regarding him in such a  way  as  to
suggest  that  it  was  measuring  every smallest particle of his
body, mind and capability. And when it spoke, what it said seemed
to  bear this impression out. Before going on to what it actually
said, it is worth recording at this point  that  Zaphod  was  the
first  living  organic being to hear one of these creatures speak
for something over  ten  billion  years.  If  he  had  paid  more
attention  to his ancient history lessons and less to his organic
being, he might have been more impressed by this honour.

The robot's voice was like its body, cold, sleek and lifeless. It
had  almost  a  cultured  rasp to it. It sounded as ancient as it
was.

It said, "You do have a Kill-O-Zap blaster pistol in your hand."

Zaphod didn't know what it  meant  for  a  moment,  but  then  he
glanced down at his own hand and was relieved to see that what he
had found clipped to a  wall  bracket  was  indeed  what  he  had
thought it was.

"Yeah," he said in a kind  of  relieved  sneer,  which  is  quite
tricky,  "well,  I  wouldn't  want  to  overtax your imagination,
robot." For a while nobody said  anything,  and  Zaphod  realized
that the robots were obviously not here to make conversation, and
that it was up to him.

"I can't help noticing that you have parked your ship,"  he  said
with  a  nod  of  one  of his heads in the appropriate direction,
"through mine."

There was no denying this. Without regard for any kind of  proper
dimensional  behaviour  they  had  simply materialized their ship
precisely where they wanted it to be, which  meant  that  it  was
simply  locked  through the Heart of Gold as if they were nothing
more than two combs.

Again, they made no response to this, and Zaphod wondered if  the
conversation  would gather any momentum if he phrased his part of
it in the form of questions.

"... haven't you?" he added.

"Yes," replied the robot."

"Er, OK," said Zaphod. "So what are you cats doing here?"

Silence.

"Robots," said Zaphod, "what are you robots doing here?"

"We have come," rasped the robot, "for the Gold of the Bail."

Zaphod nodded. He waggled his gun to invite further  elaboration.
The robot seemed to understand this.

"The Gold Bail is part of the Key we seek," continued the  robot,
"to release our Masters from Krikkit."

Zaphod nodded again. He waggled his gun again.

"The Key," continued the robot simply, "was disintegrated in time
and space. The Golden Bail is embedded in the device which drives
your ship. It will be reconstituted in the Key. Our Masters shall
be released. The Universal Readjustment will continue."
Zaphod nodded again.

"What are you talking about?" he said.

A slightly pained expression seemed to cross the robot's  totally
expressionless  face.  He  seemed  to be finding the conversation
depressing.

"Obliteration," it said. "We seek  the  Key,"  it  repeated,  "we
already  have the Wooden Pillar, the Steel Pillar and the Perspex
Pillar. In a moment we will have the Gold Bail ..."

"No you won't."

"We will," stated the robot.

"No you won't. It makes my ship work."

"In a moment," repeated the robot patiently, "we  will  have  the
Gold Bail ..."

"You will not," said Zaphod.

"And then we must go," said the robot, in all seriousness, "to  a
party."

"Oh," said Zaphod, startled. "Can I come?"

"No," said the robot. "We are going to shoot you."

"Oh yeah?" said Zaphod, waggling his gun.

"Yes," said the robot, and they shot him.

Zaphod was so surprised that they had to shoot him  again  before
he fell down.




"Shhh," said Slartibartfast. "Listen and watch."

Night had now fallen on ancient Krikkit. The  sky  was  dark  and
empty. The only light was coming from the nearby town, from which
pleasant convivial sounds were drifting quietly  on  the  breeze.
They  stood  beneath  a  tree  from which heady fragrances wafted
around them. Arthur squatted and felt the Informational  Illusion
of  the  soil  and  the grass. He ran it through his fingers. The
soil seemed heavy and rich, the grass  strong.  It  was  hard  to
avoid  the impression that this was a thoroughly delightful place
in all respects.

The sky was, however, extremely blank and  seemed  to  Arthur  to
cast  a  certain  chill  over the otherwise idyllic, if currently
invisible, landscape. Still, he supposed, it's a question of what
you're used to.

He felt  a tap on his shoulder and looked up. Slartibartfast  was
quietly  directing his attention to something down the other side
of the hill. He looked and  could  just  see  some  faint  lights
dancing and waving, and moving slowly in their direction.

As they came nearer, sounds became audible too, and soon the  dim
lights  and  noises  resolved  themselves  into  a small group of
people who were walking home across the hill towards the town.

They walked quite near the watchers beneath  the  tree,  swinging
lanterns  which  made soft and crazy lights dance among the trees
and grass, chattering contentedly, and actually  singing  a  song
about  how terribly nice everything was, how happy they were, how
much they enjoyed working on the farm, and how pleasant it was to
be  going  home  to  see their wives and children, with a lilting
chorus to the effect that the flowers were smelling  particularly
nice at this time of year and that it was a pity the dog had died
seeing as it liked them so much. Arthur could almost imagine Paul
McCartney  sitting  with  his  feet  up  by  the fire on evening,
humming it to Linda and wondering what to buy with the  proceeds,
and thinking probably Essex.

"The Masters of Krikkit," breathed Slartibartfast  in  sepulchral
tones.

Coming, as it did, so hard upon the heels  of  his  own  thoughts
about  Essex this remark caused Arthur a moment's confusion. Then
the logic of the situation imposed itself on his scattered  mind,
and  he  discovered  that he still didn't understand what the old
man meant.

"What?" he said.

"The Masters of Krikkit," said Slartibartfast again, and  if  his
breathing  had  been sepulchral before, this time he sounded like
someone in Hades with bronchitis.

Arthur peered at the group and tried to make sense of what little
information he had at his disposal at this point.

The people in the group were clearly alien, if only because  they
seemed  a  little tall, thin, angular and almost as pale as to be
white, but otherwise they appeared remarkably pleasant; a  little
whimsical  perhaps, one wouldn't necessarily want to spend a long
coach journey with them, but the point was that if they  deviated
in any way from being good straightforward people it was in being
perhaps too nice rather than not nice enough.  So  why  all  this
rasping  lungwork  from  Slartibartfast  which  would  seem  more
appropriate to a radio commercial for one of  those  nasty  films
about chainsaw operators taking their work home with them?

Then, this Krikkit angle was a tough one, too.  He  hadn't  quite
fathomed the connection between what he knew as cricket, and what
...

Slartibartfast interrupted his train of thought at this point  as
if sensing what was going through his mind.

"The game you know as cricket," he  said,  and  his  voice  still
seemed  to  be  wandering lost in subterranean passages, "is just
one of those curious freaks  of  racial  memory  which  can  keep
images  alive in the mind aeons after their true significance has
been lost in the mists of time. Of all the races on  the  Galaxy,
only  the  English  could  possibly revive the memory of the most
horrific wars ever to sunder the Universe and transform  it  into
what I'm afraid is generally regarded as an incomprehensibly dull
and pointless game.

"Rather fond of it myself," he added, "but in most people's  eyes
you  have  been  inadvertently  guilty  of the most grotesque bad
taste. Particularly the bit about the little red ball hitting the
wicket, that's very nasty."

"Um," said Arthur with a reflective frown to  indicate  that  his
cognitive  synapses  were coping with this as best as they could,
"um."

"And  these,"  said  Slartibartfast,  slipping  back  into  crypt
guttural  and  indicating  the  group  of Krikkit men who had now
walked past them, "are the ones who started it all, and  it  will
start tonight. Come, we will follow, and see why."

They slipped out from  underneath  the  tree,  and  followed  the
cheery party along the dark hill path. Their natural instinct was
to tread quietly and  stealthily  in  pursuit  of  their  quarry,
though,   as   they   were  simply  walking  through  a  recorded
Informational Illusion, they could as easily  have  been  wearing
euphoniums  and  woad  for all the notice their quarry would have
taken of them.

Arthur noticed that a couple of members of  the  party  were  now
singing  a  different  song. It came lilting back to them through
the soft night air, and was a sweet romantic ballad  which  would
have netted McCartney Kent and Sussex and enabled him to put in a
fair offer for Hampshire.

"You must surely know," said Slartibartfast to Ford, "what it  is
that is about to happen?"

"Me?" said Ford. "No."

"Did you not learn Ancient  Galactic  History  when  you  were  a
child?"

"I was in the cybercubicle behind Zaphod,"  said  Ford,  "it  was
very  distracting.  Which  isn't  to say that I didn't learn some
pretty stunning things."

At this point Arthur noticed a curious feature to the  song  that
the party were singing. The middle eight bridge, which would have
had  McCartney  firmly  consolidated  in  Winchester  and  gazing
intently  over  the  Test  Valley to the rich pickings of the New
Forest beyond,  had  some  curious  lyrics.  The  songwriter  was
referring to meeting with a girl not "under the moon" or "beneath
the stars" but "above the grass", which struck  Arthur  a  little
prosaic.  Then  he  looked up again at the bewildering black sky,
and had the distinct feeling that there was  an  important  point
here,  if  only he could grasp what it was. It gave him a feeling
of being alone in the Universe, and he said so.

"No," said Slartibartfast, with a slight quickening of his  step,
"the  people  of Krikkit have never thought to themselves `We are
alone in the Universe.' They are surrounded by a huge Dust Cloud,
you  see,  their  single  sun with its single world, and they are
right out on the utmost eastern edge of the  Galaxy.  Because  of
the  Dust  Cloud there has never been anything to see in the sky.
At night it is totally blank, During the day there  is  the  sun,
but  you  can't  look  directly  at  that so they don't. They are
hardly aware of the sky. It's as if they had a blind  spot  which
extended 180 degrees from horizon to horizon.

"You see, the reason why they have never thought `We are alone in
the  Universe'  is  that  until tonight they don't know about the
Universe. Until tonight."

He moved on, leaving the words ringing in the air behind him.

"Imagine," he said, "never even thinking `We  are  alone'  simply
because  it  has  never occurred to you to think that there's any
other way to be."

He moved on again.

"I'm afraid this is going to be a little unnerving," he added.

As he spoke, they became aware of a very thin roaring scream high
up  in  the  sightless  sky  above  them. They glanced upwards in
alarm, but for a moment or two could see nothing.

Then Arthur noticed that the people in the party in front of them
had heard the noise, but that none of them seemed to know what to
so  with  it.   They   were   glancing   around   themselves   in
consternation,  left,  right,  forwards,  backwards,  even at the
ground. It never occurred to them to look upwards.

The profoundness of the shock and  horror  they  emanated  a  few
moments  later  when  the  burning  wreckage  of a spaceship came
hurtling and screaming out of the sky and crashed  about  half  a
mile  from where they were standing was something that you had to
be there to experience.

Some speak of the Heart of Gold in  hushed  tones,  some  of  the
Starship Bistromath.

Many speak of the legendary  and  gigantic  Starship  Titanic,  a
majestic  and  luxurious  cruise-liner  launched  from  the great
shipbuilding asteroid complexes of Artifactovol some hundreds  of
years ago now, and with good reason.

It was  sensationally  beautiful,  staggeringly  huge,  and  more
pleasantly  equipped than any ship in what now remains of history
(see note below on the Campaign for Real Time)  but  it  had  the
misfortune to be built in the very earliest days of Improbability
Physics,  long  before  this  difficult  and  cussed  branch   of
knowledge was fully, or at all, understood.

The designers and engineers decided, in their innocence, to build
a  prototype  Improbability  Field  into  it,  which  was  meant,
supposedly, to ensure that  it  was  Infinitely  Improbable  that
anything would ever go wrong with any part of the ship.

They did not realize that because  of  the  quasi-reciprocal  and
circular  nature of all Improbability calculations, anything that
was Infinitely Improbable was  actually  very  likely  to  happen
almost immediately.

The Starship Titanic was a monstrously pretty  sight  as  it  lay
beached  like  a silver Arcturan Megavoidwhale amongst the laser-
lit tracery of its construction gantries, a  brilliant  cloud  of
pins   and   needles  of  light  against  the  deep  interstellar
blackness; but when launched, it did not even manage to  complete
its  very  first  radio  message  -  an SOS - before undergoing a
sudden and gratuitous total existence failure.

However, the same event which saw the disastrous failure  of  one
science  in its infancy also witnessed the apotheosis of another.
It was conclusively proven that more  people  watched  the  tri-d
coverage  of  the  launch  than actually existed at the time, and
this has now been recognized as the greatest achievement ever  in
the science of audience research.

Another spectacular media event of that time  was  the  supernova
which  the  star Ysllodins underwent a few hours later. Ysllodins
is the star around which most of  the  Galaxy's  major  insurance
underwriters live, or rather lived.

But whilst these spaceships, and other great ones which  come  to
mind,  such  as  the Galactic Fleet Battleships - the GSS Daring,
the GSS Audacy and the GSS Suicidal Insanity - are all spoken  of
with  awe,  pride,  enthusiasm,  affection,  admiration,  regret,
jealousy, resentment, in fact most of the better known  emotions,
the one which regularly commands the most actual astonishment was
Krikkit One, the first spaceship ever  built  by  the  people  of
Krikkit. This is not because it was a wonderful ship. It wasn't.

It was a crazy piece of near junk. It looked as if  it  had  been
knocked up in somebody's backyard, and this was in fact precisely
where it had been knocked up. The  astonishing  thing  about  the
ship  was  not  that  it was one well (it wasn't) but that it was
done at all. The period of time which  had  elapsed  between  the
moment  that  the people of Krikkit had discovered that there was
such a thing as space and the launching of their first  spaceship
was almost exactly a year.

Ford Prefect was extremely grateful, as he strapped  himself  in,
that  this  was  just another Informational Illusion, and that he
was therefore completely safe. In real life it wasn't a  ship  he
would have set foot in for all the rice wine in China. "Extremely
rickety" was one phrase which sprang to mind, and "Please  may  I
get out?" was another.

"This is going to fly?" said Arthur, giving gaunt looks,  at  the
lashed-together  pipework  and wiring which festooned the cramped
interior of the ship.

Slartibartfast  assured  him  that  it  would,  that  they   were
perfectly  safe  and  that  it  was  all  going  to  be extremely
instructive and not a little harrowing.

Ford and Arthur decided just to relax and be harrowed.

"Why not," said Ford, "go mad?"

In front of  them  and,  of  course,  totally  unaware  of  their
presence  for  the  very  good  reason that they weren't actually
there, were the three pilots. They had also constructed the ship.
They  had  been  on  the  hill  path that night singing wholesome
heartwarming songs. Their brains had been very slightly turned by
the  nearby  crash  of  the alien spaceship. They had spent weeks
stripping every tiniest last secret out of the wreckage  of  that
burnt-up  spaceship,  all  the  while  singing lilting spaceship-
stripping ditties. They had then built their own  ship  and  this
was  it.  This  was their ship, and they were currently singing a
little  song  about  that  too,  expressing  the  twin  joys   of
achievement  and ownership. The chorus was a little poignant, and
told of their sorrow that their work  had  kept  them  such  long
hours  in  the  garage,  away from the company of their wives and
children, who had missed them terribly but had kept them cheerful
by  bringing  them  continual stories of how nicely the puppy was
growing up.

Pow, they took off.

They roared into the sky like a ship that knew precisely what  it
was doing.

"No way," said Ford a while later after they had  recovered  from
the  shock  of  acceleration,  and  were  climbing  up out of the
planet's atmosphere, "no way," he repeated, "does  anyone  design
and  build a ship like this in a year, no matter how motivated. I
don't believe it. Prove it to me and I still won't  believe  it."
He  shook  his  head thoughtfully and gazed out of a tiny port at
the nothingness outside it.

The trip passed uneventfully  for  a  while,  and  Slartibartfast
fastwound them through it.

Very quickly, therefore, they arrived at the inner  perimeter  of
the  hollow,  spherical Dust Cloud which surrounded their sun and
home planet, occupying, as it were, the next orbit out.

It was more as if there was a gradual change in the  texture  and
consistency of space. The darkness seemed now to thrum and ripple
past them. It was a very cold darkness, a very  blank  and  heavy
darkness, it was the darkness of the night sky of Krikkit.

The coldness and heaviness and blankness of it took a  slow  grip
on  Arthur's  heart, and he felt acutely aware of the feelings of
the Krikkit pilots which hung in the  air  like  a  thick  static
charge.  They  were  now  on  the very boundary of the historical
knowledge of their race. This was the  very  limit  beyond  which
none  of  them  had ever speculated, or even known that there was
any speculation to be done.

The darkness of the cloud buffeted at the ship.  Inside  was  the
silence  of  history.  Their  historic mission was to find out if
there was anything or anywhere on the other side of the sky, from
which the wrecked spaceship could have come, another world maybe,
strange and incomprehensible  though  this  thought  was  to  the
enclosed minds of those who had lived beneath the sky of Krikkit.

History was gathering itself to deliver another blow.

Still  the  darkness  thrummed  at  them,  the  blank   enclosing
darkness.  It  seemed  closer  and  closer,  thicker and thicker,
heavier and heavier. And suddenly it was gone.

They flew out of the cloud.

They saw the staggering jewels of the  night  in  their  infinite
dust and their minds sang with fear.

For a while they flew on, motionless against the starry sweep  of
the  Galaxy,  itself motionless against the infinite sweep of the
Universe. And then they turned round.

"It'll have to go," the men of Krikkit said as they  headed  back
for home.

On the way back they sang a  number  of  tuneful  and  reflective
songs  on  the  subjects  of  peace,  justice, morality, culture,
sport, family life and the obliteration of all other life forms.




"So  you  see,"  said   Slartibartfast,   slowly   stirring   his
artificially  constructed  coffee,  and thereby also stirring the
whirlpool interfaces between real and unreal numbers, between the
interactive perceptions of mind and Universe, and thus generating
the restructured matrices  of  implicitly  enfolded  subjectivity
which  allowed  his  ship to reshape the very concept of time and
space, "how it is."

"Yes," said Arthur.

"Yes," said Ford.

"What do I do," said Arthur, "with this piece of chicken?"

Slartibartfast glanced at him gravely.

"Toy with it," he said, "toy with it."

He demonstrated with his own piece.

Arthur did so, and felt  the  slight  tingle  of  a  mathematical
function  thrilling  through  the  chicken  leg as it moved four-
dimensionally through what Slartibartfast  had  assured  him  was
five-dimensional space.

"Overnight,"  said  Slartibartfast,  "the  whole  population   of
Krikkit   was   transformed   from  being  charming,  delightful,
intelligent ..."

"... if whimsical ..." interpolated Arthur.

"...  ordinary  people,"  said  Slartibartfast,  "into  charming,
delightful, intelligent ..."

"... whimsical ..."

"... manic xenophobes. The idea of a  Universe  didn't  fit  into
their  world picture, so to speak. They simply couldn't cope with
it. And so, charmingly, delightfully, intelligently,  whimsically
if you like, they decided to destroy it. What's the matter now?"

"I don't like the wine very much," said Arthur sniffing it.

"Well, send it back. It's all part of the mathematics of it."

Arthur did so. He didn't like  the  topography  of  the  waiter's
smile, but he'd never liked graphs anyway.

"Where are we going?" said Ford.

"Back   to   the   Room   of   Informational   Illusions,"   said
Slartibartfast,   rising   and   patting   his   mouth  with  the
mathematical representation of a paper napkin,  "for  the  second
half."




"The people of Krikkit,"  said  His  High  Judgmental  Supremacy,
Judiciary  Pag,  LIVR  (the  Learned, Impartial and Very Relaxed)
Chairman of the Board of Judges at the Krikkit War Crimes  Trial,
"are,  well,  you  know, they're just a bunch of real sweet guys,
you know, who just happen to want to kill everybody. Hell, I feel
the same way some mornings. Shit.

"OK," he continued, swinging his feet up on to the bench in front
of  him  and pausing a moment to pick a thread off his Ceremonial
Beach Loafers, "so you  wouldn't  necessarily  want  to  share  a
Galaxy with these guys."

This was true.

The Krikkit attack on the Galaxy had been stunning. Thousands and
thousands  of  huge  Krikkit  warships  had leapt suddenly out of
hyperspace and simultaneously attacked thousands and thousands of
major  worlds, first seizing vital material supplies for building
the next wave, and  then  calmly  zapping  those  worlds  out  of
existence.

The Galaxy, which had been enjoying a period of unusual peace and
prosperity  at  the  time,  reeled like a man getting mugged in a
meadow.

"I mean," continued Judiciary Pag, gazing round the  ultra-modern
(this  was  ten billion years ago, when "ultra-modern" meant lots
of stainless steel and  brushed  concrete)  and  huge  courtroom,
"these guys are just obsessed."

This too was true, and is the only  explanation  anyone  has  yet
managed to come up with for the unimaginable speed with which the
people of Krikkit had pursued their new and  absolute  purpose  -
the destruction of everything that wasn't Krikkit.

It is also the only  explanation  for  their  bewildering  sudden
grasp  of  all  the  hypertechnology  involved  in building their
thousands of spaceships,  and  their  millions  of  lethal  white
robots.

These had really struck terror into the hearts  of  everyone  who
had  encountered  them  -  in most cases, however, the terror was
extremely short-lived, as was the person experiencing the terror.
They  were  savage,  single-minded  flying  battle machines. They
wielded formidable multifunctional battleclubs which,  brandished
one  way, would knock down buildings and, brandished another way,
fired blistering Omni-Destructo Zap Rays and, brandished a  third
way,  launched  a hideous arsenal of grenades, ranging from minor
incendiary devices  to  Maxi-Slorta  Hypernuclear  Devices  which
could take out a major sun. Simply striking the grenades with the
battleclubs simultaneously primed them, and  launched  them  with
phenomenal  accuracy  over  distances  ranging from mere yards to
hundreds of thousands of miles.

"OK," said Judiciary Pag again, "so we won." He paused and chewed
a  little  gum. "We won," he repeated, "but that's no big deal. I
mean a medium-sized galaxy against one little world, and how long
did it take us? Clerk of the Court?"

"M'lud?" said the severe little man in black, rising.

"How long, kiddo?"

"It is a trifle difficult, m'lud, to be precise in  this  matter.
Time and distance ..."

"Relax, guy, be vague."

"I hardly like to be vague, m'lud, over such a ..."

"Bite the bullet and be it."

The Clerk of the Court blinked at him. It  was  clear  that  like
most  of the Galactic legal profession he found Judiciary Pag (or
Zipo Bibrok 5 / 108, as his private name was known, inexplicably,
to  be) a rather distressing figure. He was clearly a bounder and
a cad. He seemed to think that the fact that he was the possessor
of  the  finest  legal mind ever discovered gave him the right to
behave exactly as he liked, and unfortunately he appeared  to  be
right.

"Er, well, m'lud, very approximately, two  thousand  years,"  the
Clerk murmured unhappily.

"And how many guys zilched out?"

"Two grillion, m'lud." The Clerk sat down. A  hydrospectic  photo
of  him  at  this  point would have revealed that he was steaming
slightly.

Judiciary Pag gazed once more around the courtroom, wherein  were
assembled  hundreds  of  the very highest officials of the entire
Galactic administration, all  in  their  ceremonial  uniforms  or
bodies,  depending  on  metabolism  and  custom. Behind a wall of
Zap-Proof Crystal stood a representative group of the  people  of
Krikkit,  looking  with  calm,  polite loathing at all the aliens
gathered to pass judgment on them. This was  the  most  momentous
occasion in legal history, and Judiciary Pag knew it.

He took out his chewing gum and stuck it under his chair.

"That's a whole lotta stiffs," he said quietly.

The grim silence in the courtroom  seemed  in  accord  with  this
view.

"So, like I said, these are a bunch of really sweet guys, but you
wouldn't  want  to  share a Galaxy with them, not if they're just
gonna keep at it, not if they're  not  gonna  learn  to  relax  a
little.  I  mean it's just gonna be continual nervous time, isn't
it, right? Pow, pow, pow,  when  are  they  next  coming  at  us?
Peaceful  coexistence is just right out, right? Get me some water
somebody, thank you."

He sat back and sipped reflectively.

"OK," he said, "hear me, hear me. It's,  like,  these  guys,  you
know,  are  entitled  to  their  own  view  of  the Universe. And
according to their view,  which  the  Universe  forced  on  them,
right,  they  did  right. Sounds crazy, but I think you'll agree.
They believe in ..."

He consulted a piece of paper which he found in the  back  pocket
of his Judicial jeans.

"They believe  in  `peace,  justice,  morality,  culture,  sport,
family life, and the obliteration of all other life forms'."

He shrugged.

"I've heard a lot worse," he said.

He scratched his crotch reflectively.

"Freeeow," he said. He took another sip of water, then held it up
to the light and frowned at it. He twisted it round.

"Hey, is there something in this water?" he said.

"Er, no, m'lud," said the Court Usher who had brought it to  him,
rather nervously.

"Then take it away," snapped Judiciary Pag, "and put something in
it. I got an idea."

He pushed away the glass and leaned forward.
"Hear me, hear me," he said.

The solution was brilliant, and went like this:

The planet of Krikkit was to be enclosed  for  perpetuity  in  an
envelope  of  Slo-Time,  inside  which life would continue almost
infinitely  slowly.  All  light  would  be  deflected  round  the
envelope  so  that  it  would  remain invisible and impenetrable.
Escape from the envelope would be utterly  impossible  unless  it
were locked from the outside.

When the rest of the Universe came to its  final  end,  when  the
whole  of  creation  reached  its  dying  fall  (this was all, of
course, in the days before it was  known  that  the  end  of  the
Universe  would  be  a spectacular catering venture) and life and
matter ceased to exist, then the planet of Krikkit  and  its  sun
would  emerge  from its Slo-Time envelope and continue a solitary
existence, such as it craved, in the twilight  of  the  Universal
void.

The Lock would be on an asteroid which  would  slowly  orbit  the
envelope.

The key would be the symbol of the Galaxy - the Wikkit Gate.

By the time the applause in the court had  died  down,  Judiciary
Pag was already in the Sens-O-Shower with a rather nice member of
the jury that he'd slipped a note to half an hour earlier.




Two months later, Zipo Bibrok 5 / 108 had cut the bottoms off his
Galactic  State  jeans, and was spending part of the enormous fee
his judgments commanded lying on a jewelled beach having  Essence
of  Qualactin rubbed into his back by the same rather nice member
of  the  jury.  She  was  a  Soolfinian  girl  from  beyond   the
Cloudworlds  of  Yaga.  She had skin like lemon silk and was very
interested in legal bodies.

"Did you hear the news?" she said.

"Weeeeelaaaaah!" said Zipo Bibrok 5 / 108, and you would have had
to have been there to know exactly why he said this. None of this
was on the tape of Informational Illusions, and is all  based  on
hearsay.

"No,"  he  added,  when  the  thing  that  had   made   him   say
"Weeeeelaaaaah"  had  stopped  happening. He moved his body round
slightly to catch the first rays of the  third  and  greatest  of
primeval  Vod's  three  suns  which  was  now  creeping  over the
ludicrously beautiful horizon, and the  sky  now  glittered  with
some of the greatest tanning power ever known.

A fragrant breeze wandered up from the quiet sea,  trailed  along
the  beach,  and drifted back to sea again, wondering where to go
next. On a mad impulse it went up to the beach again. It  drifted
back to sea.
"I hope it isn't good news," muttered Zipo Bibrok 5 / 108,  "'cos
I don't think I could bear it."

"Your Krikkit judgment was carried  out  today,"  said  the  girl
sumptuously.  There  was  no  need  to say such a straightforward
thing sumptuously, but she went ahead and did it  anyway  because
it  was  that  sort  of day. "I heard it on the radio," she said,
"when I went back to the ship for the oil."

"Uhuh," muttered Zipo and rested his head back  on  the  jewelled
sand.

"Something happened," she said.

"Mmmm?"

"Just after the Slo-Time envelope  was  locked,"  she  said,  and
paused  a  moment  from  rubbing  in the Essence of Qualactin, "a
Krikkit warship which had been missing presumed destroyed  turned
out  to be just missing after all. It appeared and tried to seize
the Key."

Zipo sat up sharply.

"Hey, what?" he said.

"it's all right," she said in a voice which would have calmed the
Big  Bang down. "Apparently there was a short battle. The Key and
the warship were disintegrated and blasted  into  the  space-time
continuum. Apparently they are lost for ever."

She smiled, and ran a little more Essence of Qualactin on to  her
fingertips. He relaxed and lay back down.

"Do what you did a moment or two ago," he murmured.

"That?" she said.

"No, no," he said, "that."

She tried again.

"That?" she asked.

"Weeeeelaaaaah!"

Again, you had to be there.

The fragrant breeze drifted up from the sea again.

A magician wandered along the beach, but no one needed him.




"Nothing  is  lost  for  ever,"  said  Slartibartfast,  his  face
flickering  redly  in  the  light  of  the candle which the robot
waiter was trying to take away,  "except  for  the  Cathedral  of
Chalesm."

"The what?" said Arthur with a start.

"The Cathedral of  Chalesm,"  repeated  Slartibartfast.  "It  was
during  the course of my researches at the Campaign for Real Time
that I ..."

"The what?" said Arthur again.

The old man paused and gathered his thoughts, for what  he  hoped
would  be one last onslaught on his story. The robot waiter moved
through the space-time matrices  in  a  way  which  spectacularly
combined  the  surly  with  the obsequious, made a snatch for the
candle and got it. They had had the bill, had argued convincingly
about  who  had  had  the cannelloni and how many bottles of wine
they had had, and, as Arthur had been dimly  aware,  had  thereby
successfully manoeuvred the ship out of subjective space and into
a parking orbit round  a  strange  planet.  The  waiter  was  now
anxious to complete his part of the charade and clear the bistro.

"All will become clear," said Slartibartfast.

"When?"

"In a minute. Listen. The time streams  are  now  very  polluted.
There's a lot of muck floating about in them, flotsam and jetsam,
and more and more of  it  is  now  being  regurgitated  into  the
physical world. Eddies in the space-time continuum, you see."

"So I hear," said Arthur.

"Look, where are we going?" said Ford,  pushing  his  chair  back
from the table with impatience. "Because I'm eager to get there."

"We are going," said Slartibartfast in a  slow,  measured  voice,
"to  try  to prevent the war robots of Krikkit from regaining the
whole of the Key they need to unlock the planet of  Krikkit  from
the  Slo-Time  envelope  and  release  the rest of their army and
their mad Masters."

"It's just," said Ford, "that you mentioned a party."

"I did," said Slartibartfast, and hung his head.

He realized that it had been a mistake, because the  idea  seemed
to  exercise  a  strange and unhealthy fascination on the mind of
Ford Prefect. The more that Slartibartfast  unravelled  the  dark
and tragic story of Krikkit and its people, the more Ford Prefect
wanted to drink a lot and dance with girls.

The old man felt that he should  not  have  mentioned  the  party
until  he  absolutely had to. But there it was, the fact was out,
and Ford Prefect had attached himself to it the way  an  Arcturan
Megaleach  attaches  itself  to its victim before biting his head
off and making off with his spaceship.

"When," said Ford eagerly, "do we get there?"
"When I've finished telling you why we have to go there."

"I know why I'm going," said Ford, and leaned back, sticking  his
hands  behind  his  head.  He  gave  one of his smiles which made
people twitch.

Slartibartfast had hoped for an easy retirement.

He  had  been  planning  to  learn  to  play   the   octraventral
heebiephone  -  a pleasantly futile task, he knew, because he had
the wrong number of mouths.

He had also been planning to write an eccentric and  relentlessly
inaccurate monograph on the subject of equatorial fjords in order
to set the record wrong about  one  or  two  matters  he  saw  as
important.

Instead, he had somehow got talked into doing some part-time work
for  the  Campaign  for  Real Time and had started to take it all
seriously for the first time in his life.  As  a  result  he  now
found  himself  spending  his fast-declining years combating evil
and trying to save the Galaxy.

He found it exhausting work and sighed heavily.

"Listen," he said, "at Camtim ..."

"What?" said Arthur.

"The Campaign for Real Time, which I will tell you about later. I
noticed that five pieces of jetsam which had in relatively recent
times plopped back into existence seemed  to  correspond  to  the
five  pieces of the missing Key. Only two I could trace exactly -
the Wooden Pillar, which appeared on your planet, and the  Silver
Bail.  It  seems to be at some sort of party. We must go there to
retrieve it before the Krikkit robots find it, or who knows  what
may hap?"

"No," said Ford firmly. "We must go to  the  party  in  order  to
drink a lot and dance with girls."

"But haven't you understood everything I ...?"

"Yes," said Ford, with a sudden and unexpected fierceness,  "I've
understood  it  all  perfectly well. That's why I want to have as
many drinks and dance with as many girls as possible while  there
are still any left. If everything you've shown us is true ..."

"True? Of course it's true."

"... then we don't stand a whelk's chance in a supernova."

"A what?" said Arthur sharply again. He had  been  following  the
conversation  doggedly up to this point, and was keen not to lose
the thread now.

"A whelk's chance in a supernova," repeated Ford  without  losing
momentum. "The ..."
"What's a whelk got to do with a supernova?" said Arthur.

"It doesn't," said Ford levelly, "stand a chance in one."

He paused to see if the matter was now cleared  up.  The  freshly
puzzled  looks  clambering  across Arthur's face told him that it
wasn't.

"A supernova," said Ford as quickly and as clearly as  he  could,
"is  a  star which explodes at almost half the speed of light and
burns with the brightness of a billion suns and then collapses as
a  super-heavy  neutron  star.  It's  a star which burns up other
stars, got it? Nothing stands a chance in a supernova."

"I see," said Arthur.

"The ..."

"So why a whelk particularly?"

"Why not a whelk? Doesn't matter."

Arthur accepted this, and Ford continued, picking  up  his  early
fierce momentum as best he could.

"The  point  is,"  he  said,  "that  people  like  you  and   me,
Slartibartfast, and Arthur - particularly and especially Arthur -
are just dilletantes, eccentrics, layabouts, fartarounds  if  you
like."

Slartibartfast  frowned,  partly  in  puzzlement  and  partly  in
umbrage. He started to speak.

"- ..." is as far as he got.

"We're not obsessed by anything, you see," insisted Ford.

"..."

"And that's the deciding factor. We can't win against  obsession.
They care, we don't. They win."

"I care about lots of things,"  said  Slartibartfast,  his  voice
trembling   partly   with   annoyance,   but   partly  also  with
uncertainty.

"Such as?"

"Well," said  the  old  man,  "life,  the  Universe.  Everything,
really. Fjords."

"Would you die for them?"

"Fjords?" blinked Slartibartfast in surprise. "No."

"Well then."

"Wouldn't see the point, to be honest."
"And I still  can't  see  the  connection,"  said  Arthur,  "with
whelks."

Ford could feel the conversation slipping out of his control, and
refused to be sidetracked by anything at this point.

"The point is," he hissed, "that we are not obsessive people, and
we don't stand a chance against ..."

"Except for your sudden obsession with whelks,"  pursued  Arthur,
"which I still haven't understood."

"Will you please leave whelks out of it?"

"I will if you will," said Arthur. "You brought the subject up."

"It was an error," said Ford, "forget them. The point is this."

He leant forward and rested his  forehead  on  the  tips  of  his
fingers.

"What was I talking about?" he said wearily.

"Let's just go down to  the  party,"  said  Slartibartfast,  "for
whatever reason." He stood up, shaking his head.

"I think that's what I was trying to say," said Ford.

For some unexplained reason, the teleport cubicles  were  in  the
bathroom.




Time travel is increasingly regarded  as  a  menace.  History  is
being polluted.

The Encyclopedia Galactica has much to  say  on  the  theory  and
practice  of  time  travel,  most of which is incomprehensible to
anyone who hasn't spent at least four lifetimes studying advanced
hypermathematics,  and  since it was impossible to do this before
time travel was invented, there is a certain amount of  confusion
as  to  how  the  idea  was  arrived  at  in the first place. One
rationalization of this problem states that time travel  was,  by
its  very  nature,  discovered  simultaneously  at all periods of
history, but this is clearly bunk.

The trouble is that a lot of history is now quite clearly bunk as
well.

Here is an example. It may not seem to be  an  important  one  to
some  people,  but  to  others  it  is  crucial.  It is certainly
significant in that it was the  single  event  which  caused  the
Campaign  for Real Time to be set up in the first place (or is it
last? It depends which way round you see  history  as  happening,
and this too is now an increasingly vexed question).

There is, or was, a poet. His name was Lallafa, and he wrote what
are  widely  regarded  throughout  the Galaxy as being the finest
poems in existence, the Songs of the Long Land.

They are/were unspeakably wonderful. That is to say, you couldn't
speak  very  much  of them at once without being so overcome with
emotion, truth and a sense of wholeness  and  oneness  of  things
that  you wouldn't pretty soon need a brisk walk round the block,
possibly pausing at a bar on the way back for a  quick  glass  of
perspective and soda. They were that good.

Lallafa had lived in the forests of the Long Lands  of  Effa.  He
lived there, and he wrote his poems there. He wrote them on pages
made of dried habra leaves, without the benefit of  education  or
correcting fluid. He wrote about the light in the forest and what
he thought about that. He wrote about the darkness in the forest,
and  what  he thought about that. He wrote about the girl who had
left him and precisely what he thought about that.

Long after his death his poems were found and wondered over. News
of   them  spread  like  morning  sunlight.  For  centuries  they
illuminated and watered the lives  of  many  people  whose  lives
might otherwise have been darker and drier.

Then, shortly after the invention  of  time  travel,  some  major
correcting  fluid  manufacturers wondered whether his poems might
have been better still if he had had access to some  high-quality
correcting  fluid, and whether he might be persuaded to say a few
words on that effect.

They travelled the time waves, they found him, they explained the
situation  -  with  some  difficulty  -  to  him,  and did indeed
persuade him. In fact they persuaded him to such an  effect  that
he  became extremely rich at their hands, and the girl about whom
he was otherwise destined to write which such precision never got
around  to  leaving him, and in fact they moved out of the forest
to a rather nice pad in town and he frequently  commuted  to  the
future to do chat shows, on which he sparkled wittily.

He never got around to writing the poems, of course, which was  a
problem,   but   an  easily  solved  one.  The  manufacturers  of
correcting fluid simply packed him off for a week somewhere  with
a  copy of a later edition of his book and a stack of dried habra
leaves to copy them out on to, making the odd deliberate  mistake
and correction on the way.

Many people now say that the poems are suddenly worthless. Others
argue  that  they  are  exactly  the same as they always were, so
what's changed? The first people say that that isn't  the  point.
They aren't quite sure what the point is, but they are quite sure
that that isn't it. They set up the Campaign for Real Time to try
to  stop this sort of thing going on. Their case was considerably
strengthened  by  the  fact  that  a  week  after  they  had  set
themselves  up,  news broke that not only had the great Cathedral
of Chalesm been pulled down in order to build a new ion refinery,
but  that the construction of the refinery had taken so long, and
had had to extend so far back into the past in order to allow ion
production  to  start  on time, that the Cathedral of Chalesm had
now never been built in the first place. Picture postcards of the
cathedral suddenly became immensely valuable.

So a lot of history is now gone for ever. The Campaign  for  Real
Timers  claim  that  just  as  easy travel eroded the differences
between one country  and  another,  and  between  one  world  and
another,  so  time  travel is now eroding the differences between
one age and another. "The past," they say, "is now truly  like  a
foreign country. They do things exactly the same there."




Arthur materialized, and did so with all the customary staggering
about  and  clasping at his throat, heart and various limbs which
he still indulged himself  in  whenever  he  made  any  of  these
hateful  and  painful materializations that he was determined not
to let himself get used to.

He looked around for the others.

They weren't there.

He looked around for the others again.

They still weren't there.

He closed his eyes.

He opened them

He looked around for the others.

They obstinately persisted in their absence.

He closed his eyes again, preparatory to making  this  completely
futile  exercise  once more, and because it was only then, whilst
his eyes were closed, that his brain began to register  what  his
eyes  had  been looking at whilst they were open, a puzzled frown
crept across his face.

So he opened his eyes again to check  his  facts  and  the  frown
stayed put.

If anything, it intensified, and got a good firm  grip.  If  this
was  a  party  it  was  a  very  bad  one,  so bad, in fact, that
everybody else had left. He abandoned this  line  of  thought  as
futile.  Obviously  this  wasn't  a  party.  It  was a cave, or a
labyrinth, or a tunnel of  something  -  there  was  insufficient
light  to tell. All was darkness, a damp shiny darkness. The only
sounds were the  echoes  of  his  own  breathing,  which  sounded
worried.  He coughed very slightly, and then had to listen to the
thin ghostly echo of his  cough  trailing  away  amongst  winding
corridors and sightless chambers, as of some great labyrinth, and
eventually returning to him via the same unseen corridors, as  if
to say ... "Yes?"

This happened to every slightest noise he made, and  it  unnerved
him.  He  tried to hum a cheery tune, but by the time it returned
to him it was a hollow dirge and he stopped.

His mind  was  suddenly  full  of  images  from  the  story  that
Slartibartfast had been telling him. He half-expected suddenly to
see lethal white robots step silently from the shadows  and  kill
him.  He  caught  his breath. They didn't. He let it go again. He
didn't know what he did expect.

Someone or something, however, seemed to be expecting him, for at
that  moment  there lit up suddenly in the dark distance an eerie
green neon sign.

It said, silently:

You have been Diverted

The sign flicked off again, in a way which Arthur was not at  all
certain  he  liked.  It  flicked  off with a sort of contemptuous
flourish. Arthur then tried to assure himself that this was  just
a  ridiculous  trick of his imagination. A neon sign is either on
or off, depending on whether it has electricity  running  through
it  or  not.  There  was  no  way, he told himself, that it could
possibly effect the transition from one state to the other with a
contemptuous  flourish. He hugged himself tightly in his dressing
gown and shivered, nevertheless.

The neon sign in the depths now suddenly lit up, bafflingly, with
just three dots and a comma. Like this:


Only in green neon.

It was trying, Arthur realized after staring at this  perplexedly
for  a  second  or  two, to indicate that there was more to come,
that the sentence was not complete. Trying with almost superhuman
pedantry, he reflected. Or at least, inhuman pedantry.

The sentence then completed itself with these two words:

Arthur Dent.

He reeled. He steadied himself to have another clear look at  it.
It still said Arthur Dent, so he reeled again.

Once again, the sign flicked off, and left him  blinking  in  the
darkness  with  just the dim red image of his name jumping on his
retina.

Welcome, the sign now suddenly said.

After a moment, it added:

I Don't Think.

The stone-cold fear which had been hovering about Arthur all this
time,  waiting for its moment, recognized that its moment had now
come and pounced on him. He tried to fight  it  off.  He  dropped
into  a kind of alert crouch that he had once seen somebody do on
television, but it must have been someone with stronger knees. He
peered huntedly into the darkness.

"Er, hello?" he said.
He cleared his throat and said it again, more loudly and  without
the  "er".  At some distance down the corridor it seemed suddenly
as if somebody started to beat on a bass drum.

He listened to it for a few seconds and realized that it was just
his heart beating.

He listened for a few seconds more and realized  that  it  wasn't
his heart beating, it was somebody down the corridor beating on a
bass drum.

Beads of sweat formed on his brow, tensed themselves,  and  leapt
off.  He  put a hand out on the floor to steady his alert crouch,
which wasn't holding up very well. The sign changed itself again.
It said:

Do Not be Alarmed.

After a pause, it added:

Be Very Very Frightened, Arthur Dent.

Once again it flicked off. Once again it left  him  in  darkness.
His  eyes seemed to be popping out of his head. He wasn't certain
if this was because they were trying to see more clearly,  or  if
they simply wanted to leave at this point.

"Hello?" he said again, this time trying to put a note of  rugged
and aggressive self-assertion into it. "Is anyone there?"

There was no reply, nothing.

This unnerved Arthur Dent even more than a reply would have done,
and  he  began  to  back away from the scary nothingness. And the
more he backed away, the more scared he became. After a while  he
realized that the reason for this was because of all the films he
had seen in which the hero backs further and  further  away  from
some imagined terror in front of him, only to bump into it coming
up from behind.

Just then it suddenly  occurred  to  him  to  turn  round  rather
quickly.

There was nothing there.

Just blackness.

This really unnerved him, and he started to back away from  that,
back the way he had come.

After doing this for a short while it suddenly  occurred  to  him
that  he  was  now  backing  towards  whatever it was he had been
backing away from in the first place.

This, he couldn't help thinking, must be a foolish thing  to  do.
He  decided  he  would be better off backing the way he had first
been backing, and turned around again.
It turned out at this point that his second impulse had been  the
correct  one,  because there was an indescribably hideous monster
standing quietly behind him. Arthur  yawed  wildly  as  his  skin
tried  to  jump  one  way  and his skeleton the other, whilst his
brain tried to work out which of his ears it most wanted to crawl
out of.

"Bet you weren't expecting to see me again,"  said  the  monster,
which  Arthur  couldn't help thinking was a strange remark for it
to make, seeing as he had never met the creature before. He could
tell  that he hadn't met the creature before from the simple fact
that he was able to sleep at nights. It was ... it was ... it was
...

Arthur blinked at it. It stood very still. It did look  a  little
familiar.

A terrible cold calm came over him as he realized  that  what  he
was looking at was a six-foot-high hologram of a housefly.

He wondered why anybody would  be  showing  him  a  six-foot-high
hologram  of  a housefly at this time. He wondered whose voice he
had heard.

It was a terribly realistic hologram.

It vanished.

"Or perhaps you remember me better," said the voice suddenly, and
it  was a deep, hollow malevolent voice which sounded like molten
tar glurping out of a  drum  with  evil  on  its  mind,  "as  the
rabbit."

With a sudden ping,  there  was  a  rabbit  there  in  the  black
labyrinth  with  him,  a  huge,  monstrously,  hideously soft and
lovable rabbit - an image again, but one on  which  every  single
soft and lovable hair seemed like a real and single thing growing
in its soft and lovable coat. Arthur was startled to see his  own
reflection  in its soft and lovable unblinking and extremely huge
brown eyes.

"Born in darkness," rumbled the voice, "raised in  darkness.  One
morning  I  poked  my head for the first time into the bright new
world and got it split open by what felt suspiciously  like  some
primitive instrument made of flint.

"Made by you, Arthur Dent, and wielded by you. Rather hard  as  I
recall.

"You turned my skin into a bag for keeping interesting stones in.
I  happen  to  know that because in my next life I came back as a
fly again and you swatted me. Again. Only this time  you  swatted
me with the bag you'd made of my previous skin.

"Arthur Dent, you are not merely a cruel and heartless  man,  you
are also staggeringly tactless."

The voice paused whilst Arthur gawped.
"I see you have lost the bag,"  said  the  voice.  "Probably  got
bored with it, did you?"

Arthur shook his head helplessly. He wanted to  explain  that  he
had  been  in  fact  very fond of the bag and had looked after it
very well and had taken it with him wherever he  went,  but  that
somehow  every  time he travelled anywhere he seemed inexplicably
to end up with the wrong bag and that, curiously enough, even  as
they stood there he was just noticing for the first time that the
bag he had with him at the moment appeared  to  be  made  out  of
rather nasty fake leopard skin, and wasn't the one he'd had a few
moments ago before he arrived in this whatever place it was,  and
wasn't  one  he  would  have  chosen himself and heaven knew what
would be in it as it wasn't his, and he would  much  rather  have
his  original  bag  back,  except  that he was of course terribly
sorry for having  so  peremptorily  removed  it,  or  rather  its
component  parts,  i.e. the rabbit skin, from its previous owner,
viz. the rabbit whom he currently had the  honour  of  attempting
vainly to address.

All he actually managed to say was "Erp".